are you looking for the best trading
books you came to the right place hello
everyone Ali Casey here from stat ois
channel in this video we will discuss
the top trading books in order to pick
the best trading books we need to Define
what is a trading book for you so the
best analogy I have is if I ask you what
is the best car it will heavily depend
on your situation so if you are a
construction worker you're most likely
like a pickup if you are a m with three
kids most likely you will like a van and
if you are a young man in your 20s most
likely you would like a sports car and
so on and so forth so you see the
question is heavily dependent on your
situation and even if you pick any of
these categories there are subcategories
so for example where do you live what's
your budget so those will decides what
is the best car for you even though all
the cars will take you from point A to
point B so when it comes to trading we
need to ask what type of Trader that you
are and also where do you sit in your
trading Journey for example if you are
an investor a beginner investor then you
need to learn the basics so the best
book for you is learning the basics of
the financial markets how to open a
brokerage account what type of vehicles
you can invest in and so on so forth if
you are an options Trader then that's
totally different and if you are an elgo
Trader like me again it's totally
different and since I am an Alo Trader
so this video about the top trading
books will be from the point view of an
algo Trader books come in different
formats so we have the digital copy like
UB and PDFs and so on so forth we have
the audio book and also we have the
printed book all of them are good to me
the best way is to have if you can to
have the audio and the printed book and
the digital book because you don't know
when you're going to use which for
example when I'm traveling I cannot
carry 10 books with me so it will be a
lot easier to have a digital version of
it also if you are driving audio book
will also be very good also I notic that
if you are reading and hearing the book
at the same time you have the tendency
to retain that information a lot better
than if you are just reading the book or
if you are reading the book and writing
notes that also have much better chance
of retaining that information than just
reading now there are many tools to hold
these books
digitally uh in audio format or in
digital ink format my favorite tool for
that is calibra and it's a tool that's
available on all Computing platform okay
now that we agreed on the point of view
that will decide the best trading books
I will put all trading books into two
categories first category is for all the
books that talks about psychology money
motivational interesting stories
biography and so on so forth so for
example these are books about making
money about the banking system
motivational book on how to hold on to
your money once you make it uh the
market Wizards books of course these are
very popular by Jack schagger I
collected here the best psychology books
for trading of course you know there are
a couple more but these are the one that
are considered one of the best and then
of course there are the direct trading
books these are books that has a concept
or show you a program strategy basically
these books usually will show you some
concept that you can use in your trading
and of course this is just a small
sample because the number of trading
books is of course unlimited keep in
mind that 90% of the books books are
junk literally they are fluff and to
give you an example I follow Tom baso
which he was a tural and of course he's
very successful run his own hedge fund
and currently he's still trading and run
some courses and he launched a book
about I don't know two months ago and I
bought it and it was very disappointing
I mean this guy has all the knowledge
about Trend following and the least he
should have you know posted I don't know
three basic strategies I I mean this is
a common knowledge today you can easily
find a
4020 Trend following strategy but his
book was all like the surface there is
nothing inside it and so to me yes there
are little bit of nuggets but to me that
book you know it's not worth it okay so
now we get to the best books for algo
Trader so I will assume that you already
know how to program simple strategies
but you're looking for ideas or for
better ways to implement your strategy
and so on so forth the top trading book
for me the one that put me on this path
the one that made me believe that this
is possible and you can do it and you
can make a lot of money out of it is
this book this is a small book by
Michael cell but it puts the turtle
experience on paper basically the turtle
experience was a conversation between
two top Traders and one says this is a
skill the other says this is not a skill
you are born with it of course I am on
the camp of it's a skill Richard Dennis
who said that this is a skill he took
Everyday People normal from all Walk of
Life and he trained them to be Traders
so this book list the story but also
what's most important it list the
systems that Richard Dennis gave these
people to trade now of course many of
these people became hedge fund managers
and they iterate on these systems they
enhance it and so on so forth but still
the original system still today still
work and once you program these systems
extremely simple systems in fact I have
a video on the channel about these
systems and once you program the risk
layer on top and you see how these
simple systems made money in the80s and
still make money till today then
something will click in your head and it
will say oh okay so this is doable I can
do it now let me start this journey once
you finish the turtles book you need to
get into a series of books so this one
is it's the total collection of Tintin
you are my age then you know what this
is once you get your feet wet in
programming then this book will be
really good for you so this is the
ultimate algorithmic trading system
toolbox by George puit this books has
many examples and many strategies that
you can start with and that's what I
mean by these books because these books
are practical books you can take a lot
of it and test it yourself and build
upon and all George proit books are
excellent and he uses easy language so
it's a lot easier to get into if you are
a trade station user or a multi-chart
user my next favorite author is Robert
Carver he used to work for AHL which is
a huge successful hedge fund he now
trades for himself and he wrote three
books so far I think or four I didn't
get the fourth book and he also comes on
a podcast called top Traders unplugged
and you know he talks about how he
trades most of the time but this is one
of the great books this is systematic
trading by Robert Carver and then we
have the
portfolios so he goes into how to
construct portfolios this you like for
long-term investing but still it's
trading but I mean the signals are not
actively daily unless you trading a lot
of instruments but really a huge huge
push if you want to get into portfolios
and how to construct portfolios and how
to layer a risk on top of them next on
the list we have Howard Bandy he is I
think Australian and he wrote three
books which I have three of them they
are not all as good but again he gives a
lot of system and a lot of insight on
how to vet system statistically but
still within like
retail uh reach so you know because in
retail we don't have many tools that the
hedge funds have so it's uh easier to
implement these tools using this book
remember the list goes on and on there
are many many really good books but you
know we cannot list all of them
but these are my let's say my favorite
and they will give you huge value if you
get these books and of course I cannot
do this without my number one favorite
author which is Perry Kaufman now Perry
Kaufman is a very successful Trader he's
still trading till today at his age that
is wonderful he used mainly Trend
following but still a lot of short-term
uh trading systems and his most popular
trading book trading systems and methods
it's actually now in sixth edition that
book is the Bible for all algo Traders
you need to get that book in any way
shape or form because it's really really
includes all almost all the concepts in
algo trading so it's really a huge
benefit to have that book in your
library now recently he launched two
books and gracefully he sent me two
dedicated copies so this is kofman
constructs trading systems and then we
have learn to trade both of these again
go deep into how to construct a trading
system and he show you statistics of
what each system look like on multiple
markets so again these are practical
books that you can take Concepts out of
them implemented in your trading Journey
now there are Advanced books and again
it will depend on your journey so for
example if you are into position sizing
then Ralph Vince is the best to get into
that but that's an advanced subject and
even R Vin's books are also Advanced
like they need a lot of math and most
likely you cannot Implement that math in
your normal uh trading platform you will
need probably r language or matlb or
something like it these are the books
that hedge fund use to implement their
alos the main goal of this video is to
get you in the habit of reading
upgrading your skill remember this is a
skill you need to work on it to always
stay on the top I'm will be very
interested to know what's your favorite
trading book so please list it below in
the comments to learn about the turtles
trading system watch this video and I
will see you
[Music]
then are you looking for the best
trading books you came to the right
place
