if you use the typical value of any
technical indicator usually it will
perform miserably and today's indicator
is no different in this video I will
talk about volume oscillator what it is
how it is calculated and how we can use
it to generate signals or use it as a
filter for other signals in a strategy
and of course the secret is not to use
the typical values not only that you'll
be surprised to see that it is actually
the opposite what works most often than
not volume oscillator is a simple
indicator we take the volume of the
asset that we want to trade we plot two
moving averages usually a slow moving
average and a fast one and then we
deduct one from the other we get an
oscillator here we are in multicharts
and the chart showing the price for the
japaneseanime and below here at the
bottom we have the volume so the red
bars are the volume and then we have a
fast and a slow moving average so the
green is the fast moving average and the
yellow is the slow moving average the
typical periods for the indicator is 14
and 28 so the green bar is 14 and the
yellow bar is 28 now if we deduct the
fast moving average from this low moving
average we will get this oscillated so
you can see here when when the space
increase this one increase and when we
cross this is the cross period this is
the cross and so on so forth so it's
easier first of all to see this and plus
we can easily use it in a strategy when
the price below zero that means the fast
moving average is below the slow moving
average and when the price is above zero
that means the fast volume moving
average is above the slow volume moving
average as you can see from the chart
it's really really simple indicator but
it's using the volume and not the price
and that's the first advantage of this
indicator because usually all indicators
are derivative of the price but this one
is a derivative of the volume so there
is a huge advantage in that now why I
picked the Japanese Yen it's because I
already know the
japaneseanime long subject but you can
see my previous videos on how to spot
which Market is good for which direction
if you saw my previous videos you know
that the Japanese y will work really
well with a short strategy so we will
try to use this indicator as a signal to
enter short on this currency so this is
the strategy now applied and we will go
short when the volume oscillator cross
from positive to negative and we will
exit after four bars so you can see here
this is a cross and then we have another
cross here so we enter we exit after
four bars another cross here we enter we
exit after four bars and another cross
here we enter we exit after four bars so
it's very simple and why the cross
because if you just say we will enter
when the price below zero that means
when you exit here you will enter again
here and you will enter every time this
side so we need to
specify that it's only when the cross so
it's cross above and cross below so in
this case we are using the cross below
so here is our strategy and we are short
all the time and of course we know it's
working because obviously I know JY will
work with any short strategy but now I
want to optimize the periods to see
which one works better remember this is
the typical value which is 14 and 28 so
we will optimize three values this is
the number of bars to exit from 2 to six
and then the fast length and the slow
length we will optimize 5 to 100 step
five so in total we will have 2,000
strategies and these are the results and
if we sort by return to draw down we get
really good strategy so 6 to 6.1 return
to draw down 5.5 and so on so forth and
the best way actually if we go
to this view now what we are looking at
here this is the fast length and this is
the slow length and we are looking at
the net profit at the top so if I want
to bring this down maybe to around
10,000 and let's see and we can easily
see that this is a stable area so 80 and
20 70 and 30 60 and 40 because we can
see it look at this the um diagonal part
and if we go to three days exit and then
four days 5 days and six so
five actually it's not working six is
this part is table so that's about 30
and all the values here but then four
three and two all working diagonally so
if we pick four bars we have this is a
stable area so this is about
25 and
75 uh so that's good let's go back here
and so this is 75 and 25 and we have 89
trades and
$268 on average that is really good for
the Japanese Yen and this is a very
stable area but here is what we notice
is the fast oscillator is three times as
long as the slow oscillat so this is of
course opposite of what what we know
with this indicator and that is what I
mean by the typical usually doesn't work
now because we are using the short value
here probably that's why the fast is a
lot slower than the slow but of course
we wouldn't know without testing and
it's not only that this is not an
anomaly this is a stable area actually
all what we looked at is where the fast
moving average is three times slower
than the slow moving average so you'll
only get this with testing now we use
volume oscillator as a signal to enter
long on the es now why the es again from
my previous videos you know that the es
works really well with mirror version
long so in this case I will instead of
going short when the cross goes below
zero we will go long when the cross is
below zero so here is a closer look so
here when we go below zero we go long
next day we exit after four bars and
again here we go cross below zero we go
long next day exit four bars same thing
here so again it's very simple it's only
when we cross below zero we will go long
and again here we will test the validity
of this again we will test from 2 to six
uh the number of bars and 5 to 100 again
we have 2,000 combinations and if we
sort by return to draw down we have very
good strategies 8.5 769 all these are
excellent strategies on the es and if we
look at the 3D graph now the story is a
little bit different well first of all
two bars it's not smooth at all and uh
let's put this at 60 maybe something
there's nothing here three bars we have
some Peaks four
bars five and six actually n of these
are
good because I don't see any stable area
I mean the stable area are way down here
even though we have really good
strategies look at this 100 120
132 but they don't sit in a stable area
so even though the strategy Works in
fact more than 25% of the strategies are
really good above 2 to1 return to draw
down ratio but there is no like a stable
area that we can pick from so since we
have many instruments many strategies we
don't need to force it and this is what
I want to show you here is yes I can
pick one of these that's really good but
I am forcing myself to pick one of them
I shouldn't because I have so many
options especially when I'm using a
platform like multicharts or strategy
quantex where I have many many options
of strategies to choose from so no need
now we will test the indicator as a
filter for other strategy and now we
have the RSI 2 strategy on the S&P 500
futures so when the RSI 2 below 25 we go
along and when the RSI 2 above 75 we
exit so this is the performance we have
328 trades 522
73 uh win per. so we want to use now the
volume oscillator as a filter so we want
to beat this strategy so this strategy
is making about 4 to1 return to draw
down ratio
171,000 to 45,000 draw down so we will
optimize the fast length and the slow
length we're not using the X number of
bars because we are using the RSI above
75 to exit so we'll use the volume
oscillator as a filter for the RSI
signal we have 400 combinations and
let's see what we get so we sort by
return to draw down we have actually
many strategies that be the original
strategy so the original strategy is
about 4 to1 it's actually
3.8 and here we have uh let's see uh 3.8
so if we go to four so we have
115 strategies that beat the original
strategy so as a filter this is really
really working well and let me see here
so look at this this is a very good
stable
area and this is what the slow length is
between 10 and
40 and the fast length is between 55 and
80 so if we pick something here this
will be good so if I go back to the
spreadsheet and not surprisingly look at
this 70 and 35 that's right in the
middle of the stable area and it is the
best one and then
7045
7030 these are all good and just to show
you if I pick one of these let me pick
it and let's see the effect
here so we have 150 so making less money
but also half the draw down so the draw
down of the original strategy was
45 and look at this curve I mean come
on that is just a beautiful curve you
don't get these many curves most of the
time and I think that's because this is
using the volume because most other
filters are using a derivative of the
price so volume is definitely really
really good
filter if we go trade
analysis 190 trades at
$800 on average and we increase also the
percent of profitable trades and if we
go to annual periods we have only two
losing years and this year we have six
trades at 100% win rate
I just by the way this is I'm doing this
while recording so I didn't know this
but uh you know you are very euphoric if
you see this that six trades in a row
profitable each making about
$3,700 I mean RSI strategy just keep
doing better every single year it never
ceases to amaze me the takeaway here is
typical values does not work most of the
time and the surprising takeaway is that
the
slow moving average is shorter than the
fast moving average that works really
well on the JY and same thing for the es
where we have the fast moving average is
a lot slower than the slow moving
average so basically it's the opposite
of what the typical values are to learn
about how the Ballinger bands works on
these instruments watch this video and I
will see you
[Music]
there
[Music]
