in every Market there is usually
sometimes where the herd mentality
forces everybody to go in One Direction
that tends to be the best time to buy
that market of course this doesn't
happen all the time but it is true most
of the time and we can get really
creative of describing that event and
programming it but really I like Larry
Williams explanation of this pattern in
fact he coined the term oops which
denotes that oops you made a mistake and
the market will reverse right now let me
explain how this pattern works so
imagine we have a day like this so this
is the open close high and low
so if the next day the Market opens in
this area and this area is anywhere
below the law of yesterday
so if we open here that is below the law
of yesterday and then the market starts
to climb to that level
then you can buy Here expect the market
to go up and that is the oops pattern
this happens on the opposite side so if
the market is like this and then this is
the high and if the Market opens
anywhere in this area so it is Gap up
and then the market starts to Trend down
once it breaks this level then you can
short the market expecting the market to
go down and this is the oops button here
and that is the pattern in its simplest
form it's basically Gap up or gap down
after a trending time where the market
just makes a mistakes where the all the
orders pile on One Direction it's
usually a good time for you to get in
the opposite direction and of course as
algo Traders anything we read anything
we see on YouTube anything we learn
through a course we need to test and
verify ourselves to make sure that it is
correct so this is the chart of the S P
500 Index the top section is the 15
minute bars of the daily session that is
between 9 30 a.m to 4 P.M Eastern
Standard Time
and the bottom section is the same as
the S P 500 day session but it is daily
bars and this is an example of one trade
so we gap down and then when the market
rallies to the lowest point of yesterday
we go along and we exit end of day
expecting the market to go up let's look
at the performance of this strategy so
the data here since 2006 and we have
440 trades averaging about 40 dollars
and if we look at the performance graph
this is what it looks like nothing to be
happy about but the edge is there that
means buying on a gap done when it
breaks the low of yesterday
it's a positive Edge you only need to
add maybe filters and this will be a
good trade also you can of course use
the opposite you can use this as a
filter for other signal this is an
important concept because most of the
time the signal can work as a filter
most of the time and you should always
keep that in mind to switch it to a
filter when you need to if you are a
regular viewer of the channel then you
must have heard me saying that the SMP
tend to drift up most of the time so it
makes sense to hold this Edge a little
bit longer because we already have a
really good entry it's already positive
Edge so it makes sense then to hold it a
little bit longer now I'm using 15
minute bars and you can really get
creative with programming and set it to
exit after three days and so on but I
will only play with bars since entry so
we can set how many bars we can hold so
although you're seeing many variables
here but don't worry about them we're
not using any of them this is just the
definition of the session so there is no
optimization there this is futures or
stocks I'm using Futures no optimization
there and these are zeros meaning we are
not using them so I'm only going to use
number of bars so instead of ending on
the close we need to switch this
variable to 1. and now we will optimize
the number of bars so let's do from 70
to I don't know double
so that should be between I don't know a
day and a half to three days depending
on when the entry happens and let's
optimize by 10
so this is only eight variations that
should be very quick so right away we
can see that all of the holding bars
perform much better than exit end of day
which of course is expected because
the S P 500 tends to drift up and if you
have a really good entry then it makes a
lot of sense that you hold it longer and
we can see 70 to 140 all the way they
are all crafted and the best one is the
90 which sits somewhere a little bit in
the middle but the best average trade is
140. so 140 is making four seventy
dollars on average while the 90 bars
exit is making 450 on average so now
let's look at the performance that's
making on a single contract since 2006
163
000
and 364 trades 450 dollars on average
that is really really good
we draw down is twenty three thousand
dollars
and if we go to periodical analysis we
can see 2008 is a down year
2015 is a big down year and 2020 is an
awesome year
and 2020 actually any mere version
strategy will do extremely well
in 2020 even though we had the crash of
covet but because the recovery was so
fast that's why this year is extremely
good for Middle version started in any
case for this year we have 16 trades we
made 12 500 the performance graphs is
good we are moving up all the time
except in this area starting of 2015 all
the way to 2018. so so far the patterns
hold really well it pays to bet against
the herd and that usually works in your
favor by making money as you see from
the average trade but so far the pattern
is just there we are buying gaps there
are Million Ways now to add variations
for example how far is the gap you can
play with that variable and how far can
you buy after breaking that Gap so
imagine you have the low you don't have
to buy add below you can buy at the low
plus some ATR distance also you can add
profit Target and stop loss so you can
see the variations are huge now I am
only going to play with strategy filters
to me that's the most stable way of not
overfitting yours writing so the filters
I will use is day of the week so this is
from one to five zero means we're not
using it
and filters here I have three filters
and they are ATR representing volatility
moving average representing a market
regime and adx representing a Direction
so there are three filters zero means we
are not using any and that's it so these
will yield 24 combinations and here are
the results so as you can see the top
result is where we are using no filter
but remember the filter is not only
about making more money of course if you
make can make more money and enhance
other metrics that is beautiful but
sometimes you might want to have a
different filter even if it's making
less money and let me show you an
example so let's take the second best we
are making 98 000 this is based on
filter number one and filter number one
correspond to volatility by using the
ATR now I did the calculation here so
163 divided by 22 is 71 that means we
are making 7 times our maximum drawdown
the second best is 6.87 so it's not that
far behind I know we are making less
money but in terms of ratio we are not
that far behind there is about fifty
dollars in average trade so that
corresponds to about ten percent it's
better here we are making a better
average trade of course we are less in
the market so that's a plus but most
importantly I want to show you this look
at this graph so remember this graph is
losing money the drawdown is between
2015 all the way to 2018. so if I pick
the second best let's look at what
happened to the graph
you can see now this is a totally
different profile this is now 2015 and
all the way to 2016. so first of all we
shaved two years from the drawdown also
the drawdown is a lot shallower and the
periodical return now also change so now
we are losing in 2008 and 2023 only and
that is very very important to keep in
mind but not always the net profit is
the best thing to look at you need to
look at all other metrics and one of
them of course is the equity curve so in
this case the equity curve is much
better smoother there is a lower
stagnation period which is the time that
you are in a drawdown and also you can
pick from all these variations and
combine two or three strategies instead
of trading the highest net profit and by
combining two or three of these
strategies you will actually get higher
net profit while keeping the equity
curves more other things to look at so
for example look at the average trade so
the original one is 450 dollars this is
720 7 11 852
738 so these are almost double the
original average trade but yes they are
making less money so for example this is
making 37 but remember these are using
day filters so this is day three this is
also day three this is day one so if you
combine these the net profit will be
added all together there is no overlap
because these are trading on different
days when using day of the week filter
it's extremely easy to add multiple
strategies in a portfolio because you
know exactly that Monday will not
overlap with Tuesday and so on so forth
so you can easily combine multiple
strategies into one that produce a
smooth Equity curve like I mentioned the
strategy works on many markets here we
have the Dow Jones represented by ym
Futures and if we look at the strategy
this is exactly the same strategy you
can see no filters we're using 90 bars
to exit
and same session time so I didn't use
any filters just exactly the same
strategy and here we're making 92 000
and our average trade is also amazing
246. periodical returns is totally
different than the one we picked and
this is the performance graph and if we
go to NASDAQ we can see that NASDAQ had
a huge run this is most likely 2020 and
above
and you can see here correct so 20 20 60
000 21 64 000. let's look at the other
statistics so we're making 200 000 this
is a single contract
330 trades with
600 dollars on average so the option
without any filters you're making the
highest net profit 2 200 0002 but option
number one is making
4.48 return to draw down ratio the
second best is making 4.9 so in this
case
we have a higher return to draw down
ratio but here I want to draw your
attention to the average trade look at
this so the original one is 615 here we
have thirteen hundred dollars that's
more than double
and here we have fourteen hundred
dollars again more than double this one
is fifty percent higher it's nine
hundred dollars notice also that the
fourteen hundred dollar average has a
higher win rate this is 64 while the
original is below 60. and finally this
is the Spy this is the ETF so in this
case we are using the full account to
buy the maximum number of shares here we
are making a hundred thirty four
thousand dollars 370 trades with 364
average and let's look at the periodical
return
losing 2008 14 15 and
2022. again 2020 is the highest and so
far this year 15 trades
and making seventeen thousand dollars
performance graphs looks like this its
match is the S P 500 futures uh which is
totally expected and if we optimize on
day of the week and the three filters
that I have which is the moving average
and the ATR and the adx we can see that
filter number one again is the best uh
after the you know filter so while we're
making half the money we are of course
have the drawdown but let's look at the
profile again so if I pick this one
we can see again we enhance the profile
a lot by picking this option which is
filter one and this is day of the week
filter so there is no direction or
volatility filter this is just day of
the week and you can see again how the
curve is completely different so by
mixing this one and this one you can get
a really good curve if you are
interested in more of Larry Williams
watch this video and I will see you
there
thank you
[Music]
