wondering what are the best ETFs to
invest your money in in 2024 you found
the right video in this video I will
tell you what I think are the best ETFs
to invest in I'll compare it with other
YouTubers other articles and I will show
you why they pick these ETFs not only
that I will teach you how to pick your
own ETF instead of depending on any
other person telling you what to do
hello everyone my name is Ali Casey and
welcome to startat Oasis Channel ETFs
are exchange traded funds basically they
are a folder that have many stocks
inside it but it is traded on an
exchange just like a normal stock
typically ETFs will track a particular
index or a sector or a commodity or any
other assets because they can be
designed to do anything you like so they
have the advantages trading like a stock
they are cheaper more liquid easy to get
in and out there are leverage builds
buil into some ETFs there are short ETFs
where you can buy them to go short on an
index or a market in fact ETFs are so
popular that almost 90% of all advisers
advise their clients to invest in some
type of ETF like I mentioned the reason
is extremely easy it is cheap it is
liquid and you already diversify with a
single ETF so instead of buying 10 15 20
stocks of the S&P 500 or the nasda do
you can buy an ETF that holds 500 or 100
stocks or 30 stocks plus there are many
studies that are done that prove a
single ETF that's tracking a single
Market or a single index or a single
sector usually outperform any active
manager so let's look at this study it
is comparing the active managers to the
index that they are trying to beat so
for example we have the Spy which is an
ETF representing the S&P 500 and if you
compare it with the managers that are
trying to beat that index by actively
managing a fund so usually they use some
type of research their skills their
analysis to beat the returns of the S&P
500 as you can see here this is the all
large cap over one year it's a 5149
chance of a manager beating the S&P 500
so it's a coin flip but over 5 years
that percent percentage goes all the way
to 87 87% chance the active manager will
underperform the index that means if you
buy and hold the Spy ETF in 5 years 133%
only of managers will beat the spy and
87 of them 87% of them will fail and if
you extrapolate that to 20 years 95% of
all managers will will fail you see this
is huge huge and it goes all the same
small cap large cap growth large cap
value small cap growth small cap value
and rats and look at this the large cap
growth over 20 year period the
likelihood of the fund losing to the
index is 98% so this is huge study I
mean it it's an eye opener yes there are
many studies like this are done but this
is very nice because the illustration is
so clear that anybody can follow it
still when we know the ETFs of the index
of the sector of the markets are better
than the active funds that doesn't mean
they will always perform so even the spy
which is the most liquid most popular
index in the world even though usually
it drifts up but it does have some years
where it falls down okay so how do these
managers paid websites gurus on TV even
Youtubers with like millions of
subscribers
millions of views they all come up with
you know looking at the crystal ball and
come up with a list of ETFs that they
think will perform in 2024 how do they
do that here I have 18 most popular ETFs
recommended on TV on YouTube if you
search the subject of the best ETFs to
invest in 2024 at least 50% of the
recommendation will come from this list
and the reason is the past performance
so here I have the fiveyear past
performance of these top 18 funds and
for example here if you invest 5 years
ago in vgt you're up. 92% so usually
those gurus what they will say is okay
so what's the average performance of vgt
over the past 5 years then if it's in
the top 10 then let me pick that and
expect it to continue over the next year
also they might go to one-year
performance and then they will expect
most likely this one-ear performance
will continue in the future and that is
how everybody try to pick the best ETFs
for the next year it's usually by
looking at the performance five years
and one year and you can easily come up
with a list of the best performing ETF
for next year and if you pick five most
likely three of them will do well the
problem with this approach though it is
highly dependent on luck so this is the
chart of the S&P 500 Index and if you
watch my channel you know that I say
this all the time the S&P 500 Index tend
to drift up all the time this is true
for our lifetime depending on how old
you are so this is the performance of
the S&P 500 from 1929 to
1954 why I do this so the red is the
drop down this is the draw down and then
the green is how long it took you to get
back to break even that means if you
invested in September August or July in
1929 where the market was roaring up you
would have have to wait until
1954 just to break even and even if you
bought anywhere here you still have many
draw Downs to take care of now you might
say well you know this is it's a
different time but I can guarantee you
this happens all the time and here I
highlighted many times where this
happens for example this one by the way
each bar here is one month so this is 69
bars so that means is
2100 days so this is January 73 all the
way to July 1980 so that's seven years
that means if you bought any time here
you need at least s years to break even
and then even if you made a little bit
money you get back again in the same uh
period so you see this is not a one-time
thing also I can show you more so here
let's look at this so this is most
recent I've been in this one if you
bought anywhere in the end of 19 1999
you would have had to wait until
2013 so that's almost 14 years until you
break even and of course most recently
we are in a draw down I mean if you look
at the Futures maybe we broke out but at
the cash index we are still in a draw
down for 14 bars so that's usually the
average which is about one year where we
have a draw down but you never know that
if this is going to be one of these
so that's why you don't want to enter
just purely on luck or momentum because
you might face this thing and then it
would take you a decade or more to get
out of it that's assuming you're going
to hold through all this period okay
then now we are cornered so what do we
do we know the momentum alone is not
enough and we know if we pick an ETF at
the wrong time we are stuck assuming
we're going to hold maybe for a decade
with our money doing nothing so the best
thing thing to do is a system now before
I show you the system which is extremely
simple Don't Be Afraid there is no
coding no nothing let me show you first
what the expected best performers for
2024 the list I'm going to show you is
based on the most popular articles
videos even paid newsletters and
basically this is the list of everybody
what they are trying to recommend so if
you want to go that route at least you
have a list and if not then you have to
wait a little bit later where I'm going
to show you how the systems will perform
against these this is the list that I
gathered so TLT and if these are bonds
and these are of course highly dependent
on interest rate actions by the Federal
Reserve and then you have XLR and the
list go goes on so these are the code
you can take screenshots and of course
there are million ways to split these
into three or five or seven or 10 best
ETFs based on momentum you can do a
screener and you can pick anything but
you know these are the let's say the top
that you can select out of now the other
way to do it which is to use some kind
of system to invest in these ETFs so yes
I want to invest in the ETFs they are
Diversified already they represent
sectors markets countries Commodities so
they are already Diversified plus they
trade on the exchange that means there
are no Shenanigans like Forex Plus they
are guaranteed because they are trading
on the exchange and you can get in and
out easily there is no uh structure on
to wait till end of day like mutual
funds there is no limit on shares you
can short them so they they are the very
best vehicle to invest in but the
advantage of the system is not to depend
on luck when to get in or out the idea
of a system is to have rules of what ETF
to get in in and also rules on what to
get out because think about it let's say
now you are following the top I don't
know who from some investment Hub and
they will say based on our research
which is you know $10 million we suspect
that such and such ETF will do well in
2024 okay so when do I get in question
mark when do I get out that's another
question mark because I can tell you on
TV and more subscription logs usually
they are like 90% buy and 10% sell
that's because they are paid to say buy
or sell usually nobody say sell unless
after the fact so you will never get the
sell signal on time so that's why you
need the system to tell you when to exit
these systems are called tactical asset
allocations sometimes they are called
Factor investing basically where you are
taking some criteria to to rank those
ETFs and then invest in the top one 2 3
4 whatever out of the universe of ETFs
in stat Oasis Community I have several
of those systems listed here with
monthly signals why monthly signals
because those systems usually trade very
slow and you can actually restrict them
to trade end of the month and that's
what all these systems do they trade
once every end of month so the way it
works is is every end of month you get a
certain signal so for example here
December Holdings were gold 11% triple
q33 dbc1 and if
45 this is based not on my prediction
this is based on the system behind
selecting these ETFs so these ETFs as
you can see the previous month they were
different because the universe of ETFs
are many and then there's a system to
pick each one so this is one of the
system the data I have here since
2012 and we can see we are comparing it
with the S&P 500 Index this is the most
popular index to compare to and as you
can see the S&P 500 Index since 2012 was
performing really really well
13.84% draw down this is based on
monthly close which means what which
means during the month you probably went
Bel below this but then you close the
month atus 24 and this is one of my
systems momentum model it's the compound
annual growth rate on the same period is
14.78 and more importantly the maximum
draw down was 16% compared to the 24
based on the monthly draw down and you
can also see the standard deviation is
low now like I said this is since 2012
but now look at this since 2008 that
means we have a draw down and that's why
you see how the S&P 500 Dro so now we
are
9.69 compound annual growth rate and now
our draw down jumped to almost 50% but
look at the system the Adaptive
allocation model is making
12.35 including this draw down and 19%
draw down and here the standard
deviation is 16 while our is around 11
and finally I have this system which is
since 200 six and this uh model makes
12.3% with 14% draw down compared to 9.8
in the S&P 500 and of course about 51%
draw down now also you can see that the
annual returns this is the model and
this is the S&P 500 and although I'm
recording this on the last day of 2023
so the S&P made 26.9 and you can see our
model didn't make that it made made
18.25 still overall when you are holding
it for more than 5 years you will beat
the S&P 500 even in the best bull market
so why did I show you all these systems
is just to show you that this is not a
fluke in fact there are billions of
dollars invested in Factor investing
portfolios or tactical asset allocation
portfolios they usually do it with some
kind of momentum layering on top of it
some logic basically usually it's
volatility or some kind of position
sizing and so on so forth these systems
are very easy to do and you can follow
it also very easy because trades once a
month because some systems will keep the
same allocation over the next month now
although I have about eight portfolios
in the community and I plan to add more
but I got so many questions from viewers
and students that they want to learn how
to do this so I decided maybe it is
worth it to teach other invest s how to
invest using these systems basically how
to build them without code and without
complications and I just want to know
you know end of the month what to do and
I follow it that's it so if you want to
learn how to build these systems and
follow them with monthly signals to
generate your own recommendations based
on rules instead of gurus then join the
waiting list and you will be notified
when the course will be available and to
learn more about tactical asset
allocation watch this video and I will
see you
[Music]
there
