in a portfolio you can mix different
trading strategies different time frames
different directions so this means if
one strategy underperforms other
strategies in your portfolio can balance
it out because in a portfolio that has
uncorrelated strategies you add up all
your profits but you don't add up all
your draw Downs I learned the importance
of portfolio from ralo and his research
shows the huge difference by combining
uncorrelated strategy
on your risk adjusted returns and
actually I saw this live on my portfolio
back in 2015 I had a single portfolio
with five strategies to my surprise the
portfolio performed so well in that year
that it was a huge eye opening for me
and that cemented the idea of trading a
portfolio instead of a best strategy in
fact if there is any free lunch in the
financial Market it is trading a
portfolio
