did you know that there is an indicator
better than the RSI 2 indicator for
short-term strategies stick around and I
will reveal to you the power of trend
strength indicator I've tested the RSI 2
indicators on hundreds of strategies
tens of instruments and usually it is
the best short-term indicator for me
reversion strategies but the trend
strength indicator really gives it a run
for its money now most Traders confuse
the trend strength indicator with the
true strength indicator and the reason
is very simple because they are both
named TSI in fact in most platforms you
put TSI and you will get either one of
them on top of that trade station and
multicharts they don't carry the trend
strength indicator but they are not the
same in fact they are calculated in a
completely different way and they
produce completely different signal so
here in trading view if you click on
indicators and you search for TSI
you will find both of them Trend
strength index and true strength index
and then there are like a 100 variations
of them which is totally normal for
trading view so here are both of them
plotted this is the true strength index
and this is the trend strength index and
if we click on the code you can see that
the true strength index is based on
multiple exponential moving averages and
a signal so it's very pretty much like a
macd indicator but the trend strength
index it uses a different function and
you can see here it uses correlation so
this function Returns the correlation
coefficient between the close and the
number of look backs which is the period
we are looking for so they are totally
different now trade station and
multicharts they don't even carry the
trend strength index so after searching
a little bit on Google I found that the
indicator is sold for 100 sometimes $200
and
$300 so I thought that's crazy so I
turned to chbt to get the same thing so
I simplified the code from Trading view
because many of it it's like the level
and the coloring and basically we just
want to replicate this correlation part
GPT came up with something like I didn't
get this like it's a
divided by the square root so there is
nothing related to the correlation at
least from my understanding but after
several trials I was successful in
creating the indicator from GPT and
basically it gave me something that it's
opposite so I flipped it and then
multiplied by 100 so now instead of
going from minus1 to + one my indicator
will go from - 100 to + 100 and here is
a comparison between both so so this is
trading view this is the TSI the trend
strength indicator with a 14 period on
the S&P 500 and here it is in multi-
charts and like I told you mine now goes
from minus 100 to 100 but as a Trader
you need to look outside the box and
definitely look outside the default
parameters the default parameters are
the worst for any indicator you
encounter because it's usually the same
published parameter since I don't know
when probably 10 20 30 40 years and
those edges are long long gone so you
need to find something different and of
course the shorter the look back
parameter the faster the move is going
to be the more signals you get and the
longer the parameter the less signals
you're going to get and the less
extremes the values this applies to
almost 90% of the indicators so I did
the same thing then it looks immediately
do something very similar because I test
the RSI 2 a million times like I
immediately recognize it it looks very
close to the RSI 2 when I take the
period all the way to three which is the
minimum because with Trend strength
index you cannot go below three so here
are now the trend strength index in
purple and the RSI 2 in yellow and like
I told you the minimum with RSI period
is two the minimum with TSI is three and
you can see they are extremely extremely
close in Behavior so almost all dips are
matched by the other indicator so here I
have the S&P 500 futures the daily
sessions and on the right here I have
the rsi2 strategy when we are below 20
we buy Above 80 we sell on the left side
again the same data S&P 500 futures
since 2006 daily session and here I have
the
TSI when it's below minus 80 we buy and
when it's above 80 we sell now I named
my indicator
tdsi in order to differentiate it from
the TSI which is already included in
multicharts and trade station and here
are both strategies side by side so both
of them have the same amount of data
same instrument and using the same
levels and you can see the RSI is
40.7% in the market and the tdsi is
43.3% when we look at the performance
this is 190,000 this is
216 not only that we get a much better
return to draw down because the draw
down here is almost
37,000 and the draw down here is 58 and
this shows up because here the return to
draw down is 5.9 and here the return to
dra draw down is 3.3 when per on the RSI
is better this is 74 and here it's 71 so
the reason for the discrepancy is the
number of trades in fact we have 60%
more trades in the
tdsi than the RSI and here the average
trade is 690 and here is 481 and 481 is
a very respectable average trade so even
though it's lower and the win percent is
a little bit lower so I already prefer
that DSi and finally we look at the
annual period analysis both of them
suffer in 2008 with about the same
losses 2400 here and here is 2,000 and
both of them again suffer in 2018 this
is about 20,000 and this is about 20,000
2021 which is an outlier positive year
both of them make above 44,000 the
difference though this year the RSI made
23,00
and tdsi made
$330,000 and again that's because of the
number of Trades so you see here we have
19 trades so far this is up to July and
this is 10 trades so far now these
results are without commission and
slippage but even when you include
commission and slippage the tdsi is
still slightly ahead of the RSI so
overall I think the tdsi takes the win
in this case now to find other values
for the tdsi we will optimize the look
back period from 3 to 15 Step One the
entry level from - 95 to-5 step 5 and
the exit level from 5 to 95 step 5 so
overall we get about
4700 strategies here are the results of
all the optimizations sorted by return
to draw down ratio and this is our
original strategy so we have 12 more
strategies better than the original
strategy but they are all Clos in
performance and this one on the top with
$241,000 which is uh look back period 3
minus 90 the entry level and exit at 80
this is like RSI below 10 and exiting at
RSI above 80 this is a 3D representation
of the data so here we have the exit
level from 5 to 95 and here is the entry
level from -5 to - 95 and this is the
three period look back and the
four
five 6 and you see once we get to 9
everything is below this sea level which
is set now at
150,000 we also notice that the look
back five has a lot more stable areas
than three so a look back of five with
an entry above Min
-70 and then any exit will yield to this
field of green so that is a very very
stable region always being open to
acquire new knowledge is the number one
issue that separates the successful
Traders from the unsuccessful Traders
because when you are open to learning
new things that means you believe that
you don't know everything which is
always true but sometimes ego gets in
the way and if you like this video you
will love the next one
[Music]
