it is extremely difficult to make money
trading the Forex Market not only there
is the leverage and the shenanigans of
the Brokers against you but also you
don't know what you are doing in all
these markets but what if I told you
that there is a secret sauce to trade
any market profitably and in this video
I will show you that secret sauce and we
will use it to build a strategy and then
we will use that strategy to make many
derivatives out of it to get a portfol
volume regardless of your experience
level this is very important so listen
carefully every single Market in the
financial Market has a tendency to do
something we call that an edge so the
edge could be small or could be very
very big now I teach how to find an edge
in any Market to my students in my Alo
trading master class and I have a
database of every market and what is
that edge because usually that edge
doesn't change or flip on daily basis it
changes over years and years so once you
find that edge you can easily build a
strategy that matches that edge and this
is especially especially true in
short-term trading short-term trading
depends highly on the characteristics of
that market although I am a Futures
Trader I get many requests to do
strategies on the Forex Market but I can
tell you this methodology works on any
asset class it doesn't matter in fact it
doesn't know that this chart belongs to
a Forex pair or futures or stocks it
works on any asset and without showing
you how to find that edge because that
is for my algo trading master class
students I can tell you that the Forex
pair USD JPY has a huge Edge in the
wrong direction now the Futures
counterpart of the USD JPY is the JY and
the JY Y is the opposite of USD JPY
because the JY is the reverse so it's if
you're buying the USD JPY that means you
are shorting the JY Futures reason I'm
mentioning this is because I'm going to
show you now how I tested hundreds and
hundreds of strategies on JY and you can
see here that the strategies that pass
the robustness filter they are all short
except for one long so that's prove my
my original point which is this pair has
a tendency to go up and again because
I'm doing the the Futures so that's why
it's the opposite it's short and not
only that not all these short strategies
are the same in fact 24 of them are M
reversion and nine of them are breakup
okay so now you know my secret SS which
is to find an edge in the market and
then match that edge with a strategy
style that that works with it so in this
case we know the JY works on the short
side and not only that we find that most
of these strategies are mirror version
that doesn't mean you cannot build the
opposite strategies it's just this is a
lot easier and most of these strategies
will already be robust because it's
matching its characteristics okay so
since this is the opposite of the Forex
pair that means on the Forex pair we are
going to do me version going long that
means any strategy that's waiting for a
pullback will work on USD JPY and I will
prove it to you okay so I have here the
Forex pair USD JPY since 2006 and I put
here three types of Mir version
strategies this is just to show you that
it doesn't matter once we find that the
USD JPY tends to go up and also we find
that most of them are miror version so
now any pullback will work and I'm going
to start with the close lower than the
previous close three times in a row if
that happens we buy and then we will
exit at fixed number of bars which is
four bars so this is the strategy it's
making
$60,000 and this is again on the Forex
pair that means we are buying one lot
which is a 100,000 on average we're
making
$240 and we have
253 trades and if we look at the
performance graph this is how it looks
like periodical returns now I'm going to
go back here and let's flip something so
now instead of counting pullbacks I'm
going to use the RSI so of the RSI 2
below five that's
extreme and let's see how many trades we
get here so now we get 173 trades making
349 on average now of course this
extreme if I loosen it up a little bit
bit so we should get more trades but
less average trades so if I
verify you can see now we're getting 333
trades at $60 on average and of course
if I use 10 then we are somewhere in the
middle so 275 trades at $154 on average
and now if I use something else so this
is a CCI it's any oscillator will work I
just pick this from the strategy that I
have so CCI 16 below minus 150 we should
get close to this so 140 trades making
$326 and if I go to 100 we should
theoretically get less trades and higher
average uh trade so 74 at 540 average so
as you see the exit is four bars that
means I'm not optimizing anything and I
use different look backs different
levels any pullback measurement will
work now some of them will work really
well some of them will work less but all
of them will produce really good
profitable strategies really good
starting position some of them are good
strategies on the start they don't need
anything else you just need to find a
stable area and since we are doing this
with fixed exit and fixed look back I
can only change the level so in case of
the AL I I changed the level from 5 to
15 and you can easily find that 10 is a
stable area that's it that's already a
tradeable strategy so here we are in
multichart and I'm trading now the JY
which is again is the opposite of the
USD JPY so we are going to short
everything and in shorting that means we
are waiting for the price to go up and
then we short it and again any way you
do it it's going to work so in this case
I'm counting the close higher than the
previous close three times in a row we
will short and then we will exit after
four bars so these are the results 224
trades on average we are making
$311 now again I can make this four and
four of course we will get less trades
but most likely higher average trade and
as expected 105 trades making
$477 this is the rsi2 above
90 you can see 237 223 and again and CCI
above 150 remember this is everything is
the
opposite and 134 and 525 and here is the
same thing if I double this and increase
this it will be the same thing I will
still make money it doesn't matter how I
do it so you see it's not about
optimizing what indicator or what's the
look back it all started because we know
the Japanese end has this huge Edge in
Direction and then once we test it all
the strategies we know what strategy
will work in this case is me reversion
so any way you going to measure miror
reversion it will work on this pair now
remember all these strategies no filters
so now I'm going to pick a single
strategy and test many filters on it so
this is the close higher than the
previous close three times in a row
that's the average trade and the number
of Trades and this is the curve this is
the trading summary we're making 69,000
profit factor of 2 something and the
maximum draw down is 20,000 so that
gives us a return to draw down ratio of
slightly above three so using my
strategy template I tested about 150
filters and you can see that this is 3:1
return to draw down ratio and look at
this I mean uh even the first 33
Strategies are all above uh 3 to one
return to draw down ratio and all these
are different filters in fact when I
tested more than 500 filters half of
them worked really well on this strategy
which is the close higher than the
previous close and that is of course
because we started on the right foot we
are matching a miror version strategy on
the short side to a pair or an
instrument that has an edge in the short
side so that's why you can easily get
many robust strategy so here I loaded 10
filters on the same strategy this is the
close higher than the previous close
three times in a row but now I'm using
only 10 different filters so this is how
the equity curve look like for the 10
strategies and the trade analysis we
have about 1,800 trades at 62% win rate
and on average we are making
$441 but this not important what I
wanted to show you is this so even
though this is the same strategy I'm
just changing the filter but look at
this the number of Trades 225
182 166 215 183
120 so it's it's very very different
also the amount of money and the draw
down we're making per strategy is very
different so by using the same data and
the same logic of the strategy I didn't
change anything in the logic and same
time frame I only change the filters and
we get so much divers ification just
from changing the filter imagine if you
change the measurement of the lookback
or the level or even the logic of
measuring the mirr version you will get
hundreds and hundreds of strategies and
that is the secret sauce to learn more
about short-term trading strategies
watch this video and I will see you
[Music]
there
oh
