building a strategy using seasonal
patterns will add a lot of
diversification to your portfolio
because the returns from seasonal
patterns usually are very different than
returns from near version breakout and
so on so forth I will show you how to
build a seasonal pattern strategy on
copper Futures Market within this video
that's like 10 minutes the tool I will
use to build this strategy is included
in the algo trading masterclass so if
you're are a student you already have it
and that will significantly reduce the
time needed to build this strategy this
is the tool so you can upload your data
into this tool and it will give you this
dashboard basically seasonal patterns
based on your data so it doesn't matter
what data you upload is it currencies
ETF cfds it will find patterns in the
data here I have the copper Futures
Market uh since 2006 and the first p
that jumped to us is Monday is a down
day and Friday is an up day now this is
already beneficial because if I'm
building a long strategy on copper it
will make a lot of sense not to trade
long on Mondays or short on Fridays
because most of the time the average
trade on Monday is down and the average
trade on Friday is up but if we dig
deeper and we go to the heat map this
curve represent the hourly return of
copper Futures market during the week
and clearly Monday is a down day just
like we saw previously so this is the
move down but also we notice that
Tuesday has a move down and also
Wednesdays has a huge dip down and then
again Thursday starting around 2:00 a.m.
that's a huge move down and then Friday
is up now I can already use this to
build the strategy but I can dig even
deeper and I can go to the averages here
and to prove my theory this is Monday so
if I start Monday day from 1:00
a.m. all the way let's see here till
8:00 a.m. you can see I am making $126
that I'm making that means if I'm
shorting cuz this is negative so if I
short from midnight till 8:00 a.m. on
average I should make
$126 now I can keep going and let's see
if I make more so this is less all the
way is less and if I continue till
Tuesday so this is
153 and this is
162 168 so Monday midnight till Tuesday
7 a.m. I am making on average
$168 and if you remember uh Wednesday
was also a dip so if we continue this
process and include Wednesday so
definitely yes Wednesday till 8:00 a.m.
we are making $224
and if we continue to include Thursday
which also has a dip so let's stop here
till minus 30 this is
189 and if we continue here let's do 12
include this one 205 this one 205 so it
doesn't add any benefit to include
Thursday so that's another day meaning
we are exposed to the market more so I
will leave it between
Monday and Tuesday and Wednesday till
8:00 a.m. that's 224 that's the maximum
we can make shorting around midnight
exiting here around 8:00 a.m. now that
we found this pattern extremely easy the
chart just show you the pattern if there
is a pattern you will see it so I built
this pattern in strategy context the bar
time is 23 this is hourly time frame so
this is copper hourly time frame
and the reason I am doing it from Sunday
because the bar will execute on next bar
so if this bar is true then next bar we
will open the trade that means Sunday 23
is Monday at midnight and I will show
you this in a second and then we're
exiting 7 on Wednesday because again the
exit is next bar which is 8:00 so let me
run this strategy using a single
contract and as expected the strategy is
profitable so it took us less than 5
minutes to find a pattern and verify
that it is profitable on the copper
Futures Market this is what I called is
a target building meaning you already
know what you're doing it's not like
trial and error it's not like data
mining you already know that you're
supposed to have an edge might not work
but most likely you might have an edge
here and we just tested it and it is
true now we need to verify if this is
real if it's an outline
how can we improve it and so on so let's
verify the trades and here is the most
recent trade so it's May 8th and so May
8th should be a Monday at 00 and if you
check your calendar you will see that
May 8th is indeed a Monday and then May
10th is a Wednesday so we're entering at
midnight exiting at 8:00 a.m. this is
perfect exactly what we want and if we
look at the performance let's do the
open Draw down so we're making 180,000
134 average trade not bad almost half
and half winning and our draw down is
about
$288,000 and if we look at trade
analysis it looks good 2008 is an
outlier year but this is interesting
January and February are down months but
if we look at the win loss by
month January has more winning trades
than losing but February definitely more
losers than winners so first let me
verify that this is
true and if I
add our month is
February Let's
test and let's verify okay so this is
not an outlier February definitely is a
down month and since
2006 I mean this is 650 that's scatch 75
scratch scratch so we probably have
three five almost 10 years definitely
are down and three years are up so
definitely February is a down month yes
sometimes only once we made a lot of
money not a lot I mean still it's good
amount but most of the times we are
losing so I am very happy to take
February out and if I take it out
so let's say bar month is not
February let's see if we enhance our
strategy by a
lot so definitely we're making more
money and we increase our average trade
and win percent so overall it's a good
condition to add so up till now the
strategy is done I mean there is a
robustness verification which I teach in
the algo trading master class and if you
use that then the strategy is baked you
can already use that but of course we
have strategy Quant X which is a data
mining package and we can use that
strength to our advantage and this is
how we will do it so instead of taking
February out let me put it back in and I
will switch
this to a
template and I will add a random
condition here so now this strategy has
a random condition on Entry other than
the time so if I go to Builder and pick
strategy from template and we pick our
strategy it doesn't matter what you pick
here because it's already set in here so
since there is no stop- loss no profit
Target it will not be used and the exit
is fixed so there's no other conditions
to add so there is nothing to add
actually other than data which we add
the same data of course so it's copper
H1 since 2006 we have our out of sample
and trading option there's nothing to
pick and building blocks I picked
everything so you can see here
everything's picked 461 blocks picked
order types and then money management
you're using one contract there is no uh
robustness here and ranking I only
picked profit Factor 1.3 stability. 7
average trade I on it above 100 and I
need at least 65 T that's the typical
that I look for before going any further
so we are building 200 uh strategies out
of a th000 so once we find 200 we will
keep
optimizing up to a th000 let's run this
and see what we
get so immediately we have over 5090 124
I mean I'm talking and it's done this is
an extremely good sign if you are a
strategy quantx user then this is a very
good Nuance to know if the strategy is
coming up extremely quick that means it
was very easy for sqx to find profitable
strategies matching your criteria that
means sqx did not work hard by hard I
mean overfit to find a profitable
strategy to your condition so we come
back here and let me sort by net profit
and let's see what kind of strategies we
get so remember our strategy made
145,000 with February off return to draw
down of
638 and a 53 winning
per. so if we are looking for more here
well first I can sort by return to draw
down and we definitely have more so this
is 98 and even though it's less money
but it's still it's much less draw down
so it's preferable and remember I'm not
sacrificing trades all these trades are
around 400 so this one
130,000 with 8.71 so we already beat
this return to draw down all these
strategies sorted by return to draw down
already have a higher win rate and
finally if we go by average trade so
definitely all these remember the last
one with February out was around $170
and these are all above 200 uh some of
them 300 300 300 so that's all so we
improve everything with the strategy but
of course we don't know what conditions
here remember we added only a single
condition so let's see what uh
conditions this is a great one the uler
index this is an extremely simple
condition and it looks for uh standard
deviation of losses and so this is very
robust uh condition to have and second
one is linear regression again this is
really good this is almost looking at
the trend in this market and this one is
a moving average so you can see we don't
have any exotic conditions to get a
better strategy these are extremely
simple
filters and even then you can still work
on February I mean we didn't check but
let's go back so let's say this is the
strategy I love it's making 130 but
return to draw down 8.7 300 average
trade 435 trades and if I want to look
at the performance of this I can see
that February is still down but it's
down barely 1800 it's not worth taking
February out but it's not the same for
all conditions for example this one is
the same this one February is losing a
lot which proves that February
definitely regardless of what you're
going to do is a down month and then
this is I mean extreme so look at this
this is
$23,000 so if if you take February you
can add 23 here which is going to make
it
$130,000 so that's going to change all
the figures here and still our theory is
is correct because the losers are more
than the winners in February and now I
will show you another trick that I have
in my sleeve which is to combine two
time frames to get even more variety in
the equity C so if we go back to the
original strategy and now we can add a
second chart which is the daily time
frame of copper now of course you can
test other instruments here but just to
make it simple copper and then the
random condition we will apply it only
to Copper so right now we have two time
frames the first one is for entry and
exit and the second one is for the
filter so I save this as two time frame
and if we go to Builder and let's clear
all this go back to full setting and
let's load the St strategy the two
templates so we Lo the strategy again it
doesn't matter what you pick here
everything is fixed but now our data
should show second time frame and you
can see here once we loaded it's already
showing us the second time frame fixed
at D1 and now all these building blocks
will be applied to the second time frame
so we can use the same ranking same
everything and let's start
building and again we immediately get
more strategies but you can see it's
already it's a little bit slower that
means it's a little bit harder to get
those strategy but still I like it's
going really fast so we can close it now
it's already 200 now let's look at
return to draw down we get better return
to draw down only probably two or three
strategies but to return to draw down
this is good this is 142 with nine 76 to
draw down and our average trade is again
above 300 really good 400 so this is all
good and let's see now what this
condition is and again extremely simple
condition the open monthly of the daily
time frame is lower than the session
close uh this is the super Trend and
let's look at the top one this is the
CCI again extremely simple filters for
more seasonal strategies watch this
video and I will see you there
[Music]
