about a year ago I created an indicator
called KCC perc it is an oscillator that
basically measures the percent change
between the price close and rank those
percent changes and then smooth average
it and create an oscillator now it is
not created to be the best oscillator
although I did my best to make it the
best oscillator but basically we just
want an oscillator that functions
differently than the other oscillator
so you get a different profile of the
strategy that you build there is a
separate video for the indicator and the
link is in the description below and
basically I tested the indicator and it
beats the rsi2 which is like the
measuring stick for uh all me reversion
strategies 6 months later I added
another variation called the ultimate C
percent now the ultimate c% is based on
the ultimate oscillator method of
calculations so I take the KCC % and I
do four speeds and then I add different
weights to each speed combine them all
together and get a new oscillator and
that oscillator performs much better
than KCC perc and again I have a
separate video on that indicator you can
watch it with the link in the
description below in this video we are
going to take the ultimate C
oscillator and torture it with the algo
versus crap workflow to see where it
sits compared to the other indicators I
am very proud of the algo versus crab
Series this series was born out of
necessity because of all the junk and
the BS videos on YouTube about you know
Traders testing I don't know what for
100 trades manually and somehow they get
the results and they rank it which of
course means nothing 100 trades is
nothing to get a conclusion about an
indicator and espcially if you're
comparing it with other indicators also
I want to point out that all these tests
that are done they are done like
randomly sometimes on 5 minutes
sometimes on 1 hour sometimes on daily
and of course you know it's like
comparing apples and not even oranges
and watermelon so it's totally different
on the other side the algo versus Craft
series test each indicator with four
speeds so we are not looking for the
best trades we are looking for the
number of Trades per speed so the
indicator is tuned to produce 100 trades
200 trades 300 trades and 400 plus
trades those four speeds are then tested
long and short meere reversion and
breakout three different exits 66
different markets all in all it produce
about 3,100 strategies and about 65,000
trades so it's extr extremely difficult
for any indicator to go through all
these testing and produce something most
of the indicators fail but some of them
do succeed and then we rank those
successful indicators and to see which
one is better now both indicators are
available for free on many platforms so
if you go to stasis Community to free
shares you'll find this is KCC perc it's
available for sqx mt4 mt5 trade station
multi-arts and trading View and of
course the code is open so you can
easily uh transfer it to other platforms
and then if you go above it a little bit
then you will see the ultimate C
oscillator currently it's only available
for easy language but I'm working on
making the code available on other
platforms again the code is open and you
can easily Port it to other platforms so
this is how the indicators look on a
chart at the bottom we have KCC percent
oscillator and on top of it we have the
ultimate c% both of them plotted on the
S&P 500 uh e mini Futures daily chart so
they look very similar but of course the
signals are totally different you can
see here we have many false signals
basically or not even false but we have
more signals here even when when we are
using around the same speed so here is a
simple strategy that is using ultimate C
perc we buy when the price go below 25
and we sell when the price is above 75
and if we look at the results we have
130,000 in profits
3.2 return to draw down ratio 169 trades
an average of
$773 that is really really good and then
if we look at the annual period analysis
this is what we get now for the ultimate
C we have six variables so the look back
and the factor for the waiting and the
smoothing average and then we have the
buy level and sell level uh number of
bars to exit so I'm not going to play
with this smoothing average and the buy
level and sell level just to make it
more robust and it's easy to figure out
so we are only going to optimize the
look back the factor and the number of
bars as exit on top of the cell level so
it's about 420 strategies and let's look
at a 3D
graph so this is the look back for the
ultimate C uh from 2 to 7 and then here
we have the number of bars as exit on
top of the exit when the oscillator is
above
75 and here we have the uh the factor so
this produced the weights so one and a
half half 2 2 and 1/2 3 and three and A2
all of them are good by the way so even
if it's below you can see the 100,000 is
here so if I put this at a 100 so
everything is above as you can see all
of them are
above but anyway obviously one and a
half is really good so I can lift the
price all the way to 180,000 and this is
still very stable area so it doesn't
matter I mean what I pick as long as I
am
above uh four bars for the
exit and above three for the look back
everything is stable so if I sort by
return to draw down look at this 10.6
return to draw down that's huge and as
expected is above four the uh number of
bars and then the look back above three
so that's six and one and a half is the
factor so uh we know everything here is
stable it doesn't matter what we pick
but let me pick this one and let's see
how it looks like this is the periodical
analysis obviously it's much better
total trades now look at this it's
almost $1,000 on average and more trades
230 and overall 221
10.6 return to draw down come on and
look at this curve so this definitely
beats the RSI 2 which as I said is the
measur Tak and very proud of this
indicator I use it in many strategies
and the nice thing is the stability of
this indicator because it averages down
already multiple speeds so that's why
you have many values already stable
whereas the RSI or even the KCC perc uh
it's very sensitive to the different
speeds and now we will take it through
the algo versus crb workflow first of
all we are not looking at average trade
we are not interested in making a
profitable strategy instead we are
focusing on the number of Trades so we
tune the parameters the look back and
the factor and the smoothing average to
produce a certain number of Trades so we
can compare it with other oscillators so
I want to issue in the slow speed at
least 100 trades so then I can easily
compare it with the RSI with 100 trades
or with percent B 100 trades or with
Ballinger bands 100 trades and then we
go long and short meere reversion and
breakout so basically we're taking the
opposite so we are not going along with
what the indicator works on as usual and
then we tested on
66 diverse markets these are not ETFs
and stocks where they are all the same
basically these are Futures Market what
I do then is I apply my robustness
filters it's not about a profitable
strategy it's about if it's robust or
not and then once we have these filter
strategies we compare it with other
indicators so first of all let me show
you the current database I have which is
about 22 indicators and in total we have
about 70,000 strategies with more than
13 million trades so it's a huge
database and out of that we have about
3,000 Strat
that passed the robustness filter with
about half a million trades now so far I
tested 22 indicators but not all of them
are posted on the channel only eight are
posted and you can see those eight and I
am very proud to say that ultimate C per
is number one so far out of the 22 now
bear in mind I show you that KCC percent
was number five so this is not tuned to
make my indic looks the best I judge on
the number
strategies that passed the robustness
filter and you can see out of the 22 the
lowest is
66 and the highest is 198 which is the
ultimate C the next one is 179 and again
179 I didn't show you but I already
posted Williams R which is number three
at 169 strategies now this section
represent
the ultimate c% numbers so 198
strategies which represent
7% out of all the strategies that pass
the robustness filter in 198 strategies
we have
31,000 trades and those represent 6% out
of the half million trades and if we
focus on this part out of the 198
strategies we have 53 me reversion and
45 breakout we immediately can tell that
this indicator although it's good for
breakout but the edge lies in me
reversion because we almost have three
times the number of robust strategies in
me reversion than breakout and slightly
higher Edge in Long versus short now
like I mentioned these are not
strategies per se but they are already
passing my robustness filters and we can
see here this is end of day remember end
of day they don't have enough time to
produce enough profits but it's still 74
pass and 89 for bars and
35 uh stop loss and profit Target okay
so we know ultimate C is number one
produc the highest number of strategies
that pass the robustness filter went
through torture with the testing without
optimizing for average trade or net
profit or any anything remember that's
the key we are not optimizing for profit
we're just randomly testing our only
target is the number of Trades so when
we find a robust strategy with good
average trade that really tells you
something but now we have all this data
so now what we know it's number one what
do we do so now we can go through the
database and find out where the edge
lies so I sorted here all the markets
that these strategies are based on so
for example this is Australian dollar
only one strategy on Australian dollar
so been oil two British pound one
Bitcoin 2 crude oil five okay so we
immediately notice that even though the
oscillator is number one it's robust but
I wouldn't use it immediately on the
Australian dollar I only have one good
strategy but crude oil I have five and
if I highlight this and we go a little
bit we can see out of the five three
long and two short and look at this
they're all the same speed so 3 2 and
four and long below 30 short above 70
this is end of day and four bars and
this is only the S SMP and the mid cup
these are not including the NASDAQ they
are sorted alphabetically so if I go on
the right as expected most of them are
long so no surprise there and if I go
down look at this this is
ethereum uh this is crypto Futures so
this is very interesting we have five
strategies of
ethereum and three of them are short two
are long but they are all breakout so
this is really a good Edge that means I
use the ultimate C for breakout strategy
on ethereum short or long and I am
positive I will create a good strategy
then I go a little bit down also lean
Hogs I have four
strategies and we go they're all short
that's very interesting three of them
are breakout so I know the edge is in
short breakout and soybeans uh this is
also good I have five strategies on
soybeans this is agriculture soybeans
have the same uh big point value I like
the S&P $50 and if we look at this again
this is really good all of them are long
mirror version so this is what I can
extract which is some markets this
indicator will works really well
different speeds and concentrated on
either mirror version or breakout long
or short and that's is what I'm looking
for and so for example like I showed you
just now the soybeans all of them long
all of them miror version so this is a
strategy built on soybeans Futures and
it's using
the basic numbers which is 3 2 3 75 and
25 so 3 2 3 for the ultimate C and 75 is
we sell and 25 is we buy and there is
also a number of bars to exit which is
number four just remember the
agriculture Futures most Futures have
this problem and you need to take to
look at it so for example if I go back
all the way you can see now we are in
negative values so this is zero and
these are all negative so for example
with soybeans we need to start at 210 in
order to be positive values so this will
change of course because Futures this is
continuous contract and it's stitched
and every time it's stitched the premium
shift up or down for all data still
since 2010 this is the regular
strategy and uh like I told you soybeans
is 50
the big point value so if we look at we
have almost 200 trades at
$326 so this is really good average
trade and we have 4.3 return to draw
down ratio now from the database this is
not a strategy we just picked that we
have an edge here and now we can build a
strategy and of course to build a
strategy we need we can optimize and
find the stable area and uh we can
optimize all all these look back Factor
Smooth by level s Lev and number of bars
and find the stable area instead I'm not
going to actually optimize but I will do
something even better and this comes
again for robustness what I will do is I
will only add a filter I know these are
stable values because all the edge are
built around this value so I'll just add
a filter and see if I can get something
so these are pattern filters and this is
the original strategy 68,0 3.28 return
to draw down ratio our average trade is
about 370 so if I sort by return to draw
down we can immediately see a huge
Improvement so 5.16 5.13 5.8 and look at
our profit jump to 89 and 86 and these
filters are extremely simple first of
all they're not optimized they are fixed
as all my filters you cannot optimize
them they are basically binary it's
either will work significantly or not
work so for example 58 here this is a
filter based on range of the bar and now
these set of filters are all volatility
and Direction so these are using my
market regime filters again this is the
original strategy a 328 and here I
sorted by return to draw down and this
time we have many more strategies doing
better and this is expected because as
usual volatility and direction are the
best filters so let's say 47 strategies
are doing much better and just to give
you an idea here all these top filters
are Direction filters these are using
Market regime Direction and this is
surprising because usually on the top I
see volatility filters the key takeaway
here is don't be afraid to take your
strategy or your indicator through
highly highly rigorous testing even if
they are going to fail because out of
this whole failure you will end up with
something really really robust for
example now that we have ultimate C perc
I don't need now to look at another
million indicators I have one indicator
that's robust on at least 20 markets
that will give you you know 100
strategies easily long and short miror
version and breakout to learn more about
algo versus Craft series watch this
video and I will see you there
[Music]
