you can build a profitable trading
strategy with only three bars no profit
Target no stop- loss no filter sounds
crazy well stick around because I'm
going to show you how to do it so let me
show you what I mean by three bar
pattern here I have two patterns pattern
number one the close is lower than the
previous close and yesterday close is
lower than the previous close so
basically we have three lower close in a
row now I draw here two different
examples you can have many more but just
to drive the point you see this bar is
down and the highlighted yellow here is
the close so this bar is down this is
the close this bar is up this is the
close yet even though two bars are down
one one bar is up but we have three
lower close in a row this is the same
pattern even though all bars are up
but we have three lower clothes in a row
so you see even though we have this
equation this could show up in a
different way in fact there are multiple
ways to show this I only drew two and
here I have pattern two which is today's
close greater than yesterday close and
yesterday close is lower than the close
of 2 days
ago and again and here two bars down one
bar is up but the close here is lower
and the close here is higher same
pattern two days are up one day is down
but the close are lower and this Clos is
higher so you see this is
counterintuitive when you look at it but
in fact it's the same equation now with
three bars you can only have eight
patterns doesn't matter how you draw it
at the end of the day there are only
eight patterns if you are an engineer or
a programmer you can easily get your
head around this because it's either
zero or one if the close is higher than
the previous close that's one if it's
lower that's zero so then we have three
digits and it's base two 2 to the^ of
three is eight anyway you can only get
eight patterns out of three binary
digits you see most Traders fail because
they don't
understand the fundamentals of matching
the strategy style to the market
characteristics now I've done many
videos about this subject and you should
know by now that the S&P 500 usually
works really well with long miror
version natural gas short miror R
version and the Vex short breakout and
re reversion and just by using this
knowledge we can easily now combine it
with a simple pattern to make a
profitable strategy so first of all
let's uh look at our base so here is the
S&P 500 like I mentioned the S&P 500
works really well with long strategies
and me reversion strategies by the way
these are not the same you can have a me
reversion short strategy here is our
base we are buying every day the open
selling the close what do we get if we
do this since 2006 six it's $4,400
trades on average making
$21 and our win percent is 54 and that's
again it's just a proof that yes the S&P
500 tends to drift up most of the time
so if I do this every day I already have
uh higher percent of winning than losing
and on average I'm making money now
there's no commission slippage so this
is a losing strategy and here is our
optimization for the 8 patterns so zero
is our original strategy where there are
no patterns and as you can see we are
making $21 on average more than 4,400
trades and now we have these patterns so
pattern one is three down close in a row
and the close is compared to the
previous close and then eight is three
up close in a in a row so today close is
higher than yesterday and yesterday is
higher than the two days days before
it's
clearly the pattern has an effect
because look at this so here we are
making one here we are losing
33 we are losing 43 and here we are
making
118 look at the the discrepancy here
it's huge so if we have three lower
cloes in a row and we buy the next day
and we exit so we're this is we're only
holding one day we're already making
$118
on average so this is really really good
trades analysis so this is not a fluke
this is an edge that we can find now
remember we are holding for one day so
we can easily extend that and let's try
a number of fixed bars so here is the
optimization using that same pattern but
now we are holding from one to 10 bars
so instead of exiting the same day we
are holding for more than one day and if
I sort by return to draw down we can see
two bars is the best not only it's the
best return to draw down it's also best
amount of money that we can make and
this is counterintuitive because if you
think about it holding more days should
result in more money but because this is
a mere version strategy now because
remember the pattern is what the pattern
is three lower close that's a pullback
and we are going long so it's a me
version strategy and usually me version
strategy does really well shortterm so
this is the strategy performance our
average trade is
$530 that's amazing 61 win per
$118,000 2.4 return to draw down now
remember I told you we will use the
natural gas because we already know
Natural Gas Works well with short
strategies so this is natural gas and we
are shorting every day and exiting end
of day so we are shorting the open
exiting end of day this is what we get
4,400 trades with an average of
$75 already we are on a a good start and
that's what I mean by matching the
strategy Direction and style to the
instrument as you can see we are already
ahead of uh I don't know 90% of other
traders who are trying to build strategy
and now Let's test the pattern and zero
is our original strategy and again we
have eight patterns and let's look at
the average trade so average trade 76
and again here we have a huge
discrepancy between the pad that means
the patterns are doing something look at
this one and this one so number eight is
three higher closes in a row again this
is acting now as a mere reversion so we
are pushing up and as a mere version
strategy we are shorting at that point
and that's why we are making a lot more
money and look at this the average trade
is 200 already and pattern number seven
is making more money but a little bigger
draw down and pattern number seven is
two higher closes and then today is a
lower close so that means it's like we
are confirming the short is happening
and this is now the strategy with
pattern number seven but now the holding
period is from 1 to 10 and Searing by
return to draw down we find 7even bars
is the best result 10 8 6 so this is
definitely different than the S&P 500
holding more bars does result in a
better return to draw down ratio and
also it it makes more money now just to
show you that all of them are good
strategies look at these average trades
so the lowest is 319 the highest is
about $11,000 so all of them are doing
really really well doesn't matter what
you pick how many days you hold so all
this happened because we started with
the right foundation matching the
strategy Direction and style to the
right instrument because if you go
willy-nilly trying this pattern on any
Market yes sometimes it will work but
sometimes it's not but starting with the
right foundation you can easily get to a
profitable robust strategy now of course
the icing on the cake is you can combine
all these in a portfolio and like I
mentioned in the beginning of the video
I told you we are going to use the es
long the NG short and also I'm going to
use the vix and the point I'm trying to
make is you can combine all these to
lower the draw down and add your profits
and that's the whole point of trading a
portfolio so here now I have three
strategies one is on the es another one
on the natural gas and another one on
the vix natural gas and vix are short
and the es is long now if you remember
from my other videos the es is inversely
correlated to the vix so you would think
that the es will be highly correlated
with the vix let's see the result but
this is the result of our portfolio
we're trading one contract no slippage
and
commission and let's see we have about
8,000 trades now remember two uh
strategies are short so we have about
888 trades on the short side 231 on the
long side on average we are making 430
on the short 500 on the long so very
good average on both sides we have only
one losing year since 2006 and breakdown
the es making 120 NG making 260 the vix
making
125 but here is the most important Point
look at this zero correlation between
three strategy so the es and the Vex is
just slightly remember these are highly
highly correlated markets but the
strategies are not and NG just sits
about zero so this is like the perfect
portfolio your composition and that is
the overview of what I teach in the Alo
trading Master Class starting from
matching the style to the strategy build
a robust strategy combine them in a
portfolio trade that profitable
portfolio if you like this video then
most likely you will like the next video
[Music]
