welcome back everyone my name is Ali
Casey and you are watching stat Oasis
Channel and this video is another arrow
towards all the junk trading videos on
YouTube unfortunately YouTube promotes
videos that people want to see and
people want to see how to turn $10 into
$10,000 every day because that's how
trading works so they don't want to see
a real trading strategy and how it works
of course that's not all people so I
know some viewers like you want to learn
the proper way on how to build strategy
that means we have a defined set of
rules for entry and exit before we even
put the strategy in the market the first
video that I did in the algo versus crap
series came from the idea that people
testing indicators for 100 trades so you
see many YouTubers and YouTube channels
have like indicators that are tested for
100 trades manually on some instrument
on some time frame and then they compare
it with a list of other indicators and
they decide well this one is the best or
this one is the worst of course that's
totally BS the market doesn't work that
way and you cannot compare this
indicator on 5 minutes with this
indicator on daily time frame so the way
I did it is to create an equal
opportunity for all indicators to behave
on the same instrument in the same way
so let me explain RSI 14 will produce
let's say 100 trades on The Daily time
frame on the es but RSI 2 will give you
400 trades on the same instrument same
time frame so we cannot compare that
let's say with macd
2619 that produce 50 trades so we need
first of all to test on the same
instrument same time frame and then we
need to tweak the parameters of the
indicator to produce the same number of
Trades as the other indicators so here
is the testing environment we are
testing on 36 markets from nine
categories these are all Futures market
and they represent different assets
these are Equity indexes crypto currency
interest rate agriculture soft Meats
energy and metals the data for all is 16
years daily bars starting in 2006 ending
in Jun July 2022 each oscillator
parameters are tweaked to produce four
speeds so fast which is more than 400
trades medium around 300 trades slow
around 200 trades and the slowest speed
is producing around 100 traes that means
if the RSI 2 below 25 producing 300
trades we either need to extend the look
back period so we produce RS R I3 or we
need to lower the entry threshold so RSI
2 below 10 to produce less trades so but
the idea is all oscillators has to
produce around these buckets of Trades
100 200 300 and 400 and above so then we
can compare these indicators to each
other because they are in the same
environment on the same time frame on
the same instrument producing the same
number of Trades now Ballinger B test is
very simple we will short whenever they
close above the upper band and we will
go long whenever the close is below the
lower band so again we short here we
long here we short here we lose some
money then we get it back and we long
here and we are in the trade of course
that doesn't work all the time as you
can see here short here we lose we short
here we lose we short here we lose also
I want to bring bring your attention
that different speed produce different
results so for example this one the
yellow line now you can see that we have
more trays because the close is below
the lower band more times than the blue
line and again the close above the
yellow band on the top side is more
times than the blue line and the reason
is because the speed so this one is the
moving average is 10 standard deviation
is one and a half and the blue one is
the moving average 20 and the standard
deviation is two and so that's how we
can change these parameters to get our
desired number of Trades so we can
compare this indicator with the other
indicator we are testing the long
separately than the short and we have
two types of exit the exit same day we
enter or a multiple exit which is a four
days since we enter the trade or a stop
loss and profit Target The Profit Target
is two times the ATR of 10 days the stop
loss is four times the ATR of 10 days
now so far I tested 11 oscillators eight
of them in the database and three of
them are not yet and five of them are
posted on a video on the channel so if
you go to my channel start OES on
YouTube and you go to playlist there is
a playlist for algo versus crap and you
will see all the videos in there with
this testing environment we will have
many many trades to compare so to get an
idea we have 36 Market times four speeds
in each indicator times two types of
exit times long and short so that will
give us a total of
576
strategies for each indicator and so far
out of eight oscillators in the database
we have above 1 million trades with more
than 4,500 strategies so those are
really good figures to to judge if an
oscillator is good on an instrument long
or short in any speed and if you want to
do this yourself you need to follow
these uh guidelines so you need to
create a testing environment that it's
equal opportunity to all indicators in
that way I can compare let's say RSI 2
to RSI 14 or rsi1 14 to macd and macd to
aun indicator and so on so forth because
because they have equal opportunity to
perform remember there are no filters in
these strategies the exit on the same
day is done on purpose because that will
show us the row edge of that oscillator
on that instrument okay so this video is
about Ballinger bands and let me show
you the results of Ballinger bands so
Ballinger bands producing 560 strategies
with about 240,000 trades for the 36
markets so if we filter the database of
the Ballinger bands with 65 trades or
more and $100 on average per trade or
more we will get
71 strategies with 20,000 trades on the
36 markets this is the average of these
strategies about $60,000 in profit and
if we go to the Ballinger bands page
this summarizes all the instruments that
has more than 65 trades more than $100
on a per trade and the symbols that has
more than five strategies that matches
these criteria now why did I pick five
strategies for an instrument to be in
this list because each indicator is
producing 16 strategies per instrument
it's four speeds two exits long and
short and five is like 30% out of those
16 so 30% is a huge statistical result
that means definitely you will find a
profitable strategy using this indicator
on this instrument like all the
indicators I tested I put the equity
indexes in one category because they all
behave in the same way kind of and then
all the other strategies in the other
category now as a comparison so as you
can see Ballinger band's only natural
gas has more than five has eight
strategies all of them are short and
they cover all speed so if you want to
compare this for example with stochastic
you can see we have many other
instruments that has more than five
strategies but interesting enough
natural gas also has eight strategy but
this time long and short if we go to
macd again more instruments having
passed the filter and again natural gas
is there long and short RSI more
instruments and again natural gas is
there this is a clear sign that if you
want to develop a strategy on natural
gas
using an oscillator just throw any
oscillator pick the short side and
there's a high degree of probability
that you will find a profitable strategy
and then with any filter that strategy
will be robust enough to trade
immediately because the edge is so high
on the short side on natural gas so
picking any oscillator that is
overbought will get you really good
results continuing with our chart so
this chart this pie chart represent the
average net profit per strategy and we
can see natural gas average net profit
is 94,000 the average number of trades
for natural gas is
445 273 for all others and 271 for
equities the number of strategies
natural gas is8 equi is 39 24 for others
and the average
trade in dollars for natural gas 335
that is amazing because we are looking
for $100 something to cover three times
slippage and commission so that's almost
nine times slippage and commission
actually it's even 10 and then it's 275
for all equities and 239 for others so
the takeaway from testing the Ballinger
bands this is a table that shows the
highest five strategies per indicator
this is the average of the the best five
strategies and we can see immediately
that there is a difference for example
we have a huge number of Trades and the
best performing strategies but the
average trade is actually the lowest but
then multiplying this lowest average
trade with the high with the high number
of Trades we are getting an average high
net profit so this is matching The ROC
but like I showed you overall we
actually other than the indexes have
only the NG on the short side so let's
test that theory here we are in
multichart so now I will test our theory
that the natural gas works really well
with Ballinger band on the short side so
now we can optimize our strategy we will
test the short side only this is both
long and short minus one means it's
short only the look back this is the
moving average from 5 to 20 standard
deviation 25 to2 and then the exit
number of bars that means once we enter
we are exiting after one all the way to
five bars and this toop loss we will fix
it at four atrs and the profit Target is
at 2 ATR so that will give
us 160
combinations on the short side only and
here are the test results so first of
all let me filter for 100 trades and
$100 average per trade so out of that
out of 160 we get
155 so we are using Ballinger bands 5 to
20 look back period 25 to2 standard
deviation and exit one 125 bars the
combinations produce 160 strategies and
155 strategies produce more than $100 on
average per trades and more than 100
trades per strategy now remember these
strategies has no filter so we can
definitely even get more extract more
value out of them once we have filters
in you can see this one is extremely
good it's 7 to1 return to draw down
ratio we're making
$216,000 with $30,000 draw down average
trade is
$745 so the slipage and commission for
natural gas is about $40 and if we do
745 divided 40 that is1 times slippage
and commission now of course since the
the the whole thing is profitable you
can pick and choose for example I can
sort by win rate which is 65% I can sort
by maximum profit which is 220 I can
sort by lowest draw down which is 14,000
and of course you can build a portfolio
out of all of them so if I want to build
a portfolio I will sort by return to
draw down and then I will pick the top
10 and put them in a portfolio now let
me pick this
one and let's see what the stats looks
like so it's all short trades
291 58% win rate 745 average trade and
if we go the summary we're making 216
721 and if we look at the curve
periodical returns this is the
annual uh trading remember our database
was till July by
2022 so half of 2022 is out of sample
2023 is out of sample now of
course now this is definitely losing
because our average trade is 13 in 2023
that means we are losing about
$25 so that means there we should be
actually minus
$300 still that's very good because half
of 2022 is profitable now the same time
frame we can compare it to
hold uh you can see why the edge exist
in natural gas is because most of the
time it goes down at least since 2006 so
instead of looking at the BS videos on
YouTube where they show you exactly the
look back is 19 and standard deviation
is
1.9 and you do the trend line and you
look at the Fibonacci retracement blah
blah blah this is the way to build
strategies you need to create an
environment where you can compare
indicators to each other find the row
edge of an instrument and then build a
strategy on that instrument and it will
be very easy to create a profitable
strategy if you take this route and
instead of just blindly trying to find a
profitable strategy over fitting it to
an instrument to see if it's works or
not to learn more about algo versus crop
series watch this video and I will see
you there
[Music]
