welcome back everyone my name is Ali
Casey and you are watching stat Oasis
Channel today we are diving into the
thrilling world of breakout strategies I
will show you how easy it is to build
breakout strategies on different
instruments and then we will use that
knowledge to build 10 different
strategies on multiple instruments then
we will combine all these strategies
into a winning portfolio so grab your
notepads hit the like button and let's
start breakout strategies are the bread
and butter for many hedge funds and they
are an integral part of every
professional Trader as they offer unique
opportunities to capitalize on Market
momentum I know all this sound gibberish
so let me show you some examples on how
to spot breakout opportunity this is a
chart of the Euro US Dollar on daily
time frame and I plotted here some
breakout opportunities so you can see
here this is the channel and this is a
breakout this is the triangle and this
is a breakout and and if I go back so
this is a support that was broken on the
way down so this is a breakout to the
downside and then this is a Head and
Shoulder inverted Head and Shoulder and
this is the neckline and again we have a
breakout on the downside and so on and
so
forth of course all this is garbage and
I don't do this but I just you know want
it to have fun
we are algorithmic Traders we follow
rules basically all the systems are
pre-built with a defined set of rules to
enter and exit so this mumbo jumbo
doesn't work so let's do the real thing
so today I will use an extremely simple
breakout strategy basically we will
enter long when the close is higher than
the close X number of bars ago and we
will exit when the close is lower than
the close X bars ago and it's opposite
for shorts that is it this is the
strategy now don't worry about the code
I usually post the code or the indicator
or all of them under the video in the
stasis community in the YouTube channel
I know you're disappointed you expected
something very complicated but you know
all strategies that are profitable
usually very simple especially on long
time frame like daily time frame now
that doesn't mean you cannot build a
complicated strategy and make it
profitable but in this video we are
making things very simple the reason is
so you don't depend on any trading
platform or back testing platform so you
can apply this even in Excel so this is
the entry and the exit opposite for
shorts and I will add six filters so
these filters this is an oscillator
filter 1 and two filter three and four
are volatility and filter five and 6r
Direction now of course you can add 100
more filters and actually that's what
I'm doing in version two of the algo
trading master class but usually this is
the simplest way to start and usually
you will get results with volatility
Direction and oscillat so I will start
with the gasoline Futures the symbol is
RB this is the daily time frame since
2007 and as usual I will build the long
and short separate now breakout strategy
and Trend following for me it's the same
thing now I know some people try to put
it in a different category but to me is
the same thing because Trend following
depends highly on some form of a
breakout pattern so to me and this is
the general definition in the hedge fund
space a breakout strategy is usually a
short-term thing so one to 7 Days that's
a Breakout strategy and then 7 to 40
days that usually a short-term Trend so
if you are looking at any indicator 7 to
40 that's usually following a short-term
Trend 40 to 80 look back period usually
captures a medium Trend and 80 to 160
usually considered a long-term Trend now
there are some hedge funds that trade
above 160 I've seen hedge funds with 200
day breakouts of course you can add your
own interpretation on top of this but if
you have a workflow it's actually very
beneficial to fix those things because
then it's easier for you to say okay I'm
going to combine shortterm with medium
term and you know what shortterm is and
medium-term is and these are our
optimization settings so BLS is both
long or short so one that is long and
then we have the entry look back and the
exit look back so this is the close
higher than the close 40 bars ago and
this is the close lower than the close
four bars ago so we'll go from 40 to 80
to enter step five and we will exit when
the close is lower than the close four
bars ago and we will take that to 24 in
step of two and then we have six filters
so zero there is no filter and then one
through six so all in all we have about
700 combinations so this is long only
this is the result of the optimization
so let's look at the 3D graph of all
these points and let's maximize that and
let me set the water level that's the
blue plane on a
$100,000 so now everything above the
water level is more than
$100,000 and we can see that without a
filter we have this region is a stable
region
so this is 70 or 60 so between so this
is 65 and 70 so 65 and 70 looks good
with
eight okay so I'm looking at this point
here but let's see if we can enhance
that with a filter so this is filter one
uh it's stable but we make less
money let's see Filter 2 so Filter 2 is
not good I mean there is no stable area
unless you're down there and filter 3
filter 3 is very stable but again we're
making less money filter 4 also looks
good so filter 4 uh maybe this point
here which is 65 and 8 so again we are
in the same point and then filter five
again 65 and 8 looks very good and
finally filter six it looks like here is
the stable so I'm looking for filter
4 to me that's the best one so
65 and 8 or 65 and
6 now once I find the stable region I
need to look at the uh maximum Inay draw
down and let's put the filter on and
let's see 65 and 8 or six
so
65 and 8 sits here and 65 and six it's
this red point so it's worse I mean the
draw down is worse with 65 and 6 so I
will pick that point because then at
least I am picking the worst point and
hopefully the future will be either the
same or better so if we go back to our
spreadsheet so let's sort by this and
we're looking for 65 and 6 this is 65
and 6 with Filter 4 and as you can see
we are
making uh 2 and 1/2 times return to draw
down ratio our average trade is 548
which is very good for gasoline so if I
pick this
strategy and remember this is long only
so trade analysis 276 trades uh
$548 on average and we're making
$151,000 3 to1 return to draw down ratio
and 64% win rate but if we look at the
equity curve the equity curve doesn't
look that good I mean the strategy
performance is good all the metrics are
good but the equity curves looks bad
this is usually where we are different
from everybody else when we are building
a portfolio because when you are
building a portfolio you're not
concerned that much with the look of the
equity Cur I mean obviously I want to
have a smooth Equity curve sloping up
with all the metrics being good but when
you are building a portfolio that really
doesn't matter a lot because more
strategies will be combined with this
one and as long as they have low
correlation with the strategy your
Equity curve will be smooth on its own
so we gain the advantage by looking at
the
strategy uh metric without trying to
smooth our Equity curve and therefore
probably we are overfitting the strategy
okay now let's look at the short side so
let's go back here and it's the same
everything but now I'm only going to
switch this to two so two is short we
will do the same optimization same
number of iterations so again let's pull
up the 3D graph and let's maximize that
okay so let me set the water level at 30
as we don't have many profitable
strategies no strategy with a filter
except this one making more than 30,000
let's look at this is filter one again
filter number two nothing and filter
number three looks stable so let me put
this down a little bit so we can see it
clearly and you can see this is a very
stable area over here so anything
between uh
70 so anything between 55 and
70 is good on the entry and number eight
on the exit is good so this is the
stable area between 55 and 70 and
eight uh 6 to 10 so 6 to 10 they're all
good and now let's look at the uh the
intraday draw down and let's put the
filter and this is wonderful so you can
see that all this area having really a
very stable draw down region so 6510
filter number three our average trade is
389 uh total trades 100 and we're making
$40,000 so let's pick that up and let's
see how it looks like so this is now the
short side and again the equity curve
doesn't look that great I mean it's good
strategy we know it's good and we are
profitable the slope is up but I mean it
doesn't look like you know the normal
YouTube strategies where it's a smooth
curve up again I want to bring your
attention that today in this video we
are building a portfolio so the equity
curve doesn't matter that much as long
as it is up but if it's not you know you
know a very beautiful sloping 45Â° up
that doesn't matter it's okay as long as
we're going to add more uncorrelated
strategies in a portfolio uh this will
help a lot so the strategy robust having
good metrics the equity curve is up
sloping up if it's ugly that's fine
because you are not trading this
strategy alone and here where all the
magic is going to happen so now I build
a portfolio now now I did the same exact
same analysis of course I'm not going to
repeat it and then this video will be
two hours long so this is the copper uh
long and this is the copper short so and
gasoline long gasoline short and then
heating oil long and then Euro USD short
and then Euro doll so this is an
interest rate it's not the same as Euro
USD and this is is long and then
Japanese USD dollar short and finally
the US dollar long so these are 10
strategies some of them long some of
them short some instruments like the
copper and the gasoline have long and
short in this portfolio they are all
using the data since 2007 and we're
trading one contract per instrument no
slippage no commission no slippage no
commission is not there because you know
I'm trying to hide something I do
actually look at slippage and commission
but I do it in a different way so here
is the way I do it let's say you build a
strategy on the S&P 500 and the strategy
makes
$40 so the strategy has an edge but the
edge is not enough so you definitely
need a filter to boost that edge now
maybe you can maybe you can't but you
don't know but if you add $50 slippage
and commission from the beginning then
that strategy will be losing from the
beginning so you will not have a chance
to add the filters now of course this is
subjective it's up to you and it's up to
your workflow so my workflow I need to
look at the row Edge in the beginning
then at the slipage and commission lb in
fact I don't even add it until at the
end because I know when I'm let's say
building on the S&P I need at least $100
on the average trade so what you want is
if you don't include slippage and
commission your average trade needs to
be at least three times slippage and
commission so that is the ratio I use of
course the higher the better four
usually is where I sit but you know
three and I'm really liking that
strategy or it really sits well in a
portfolio then I don't mind so of course
all these strategies that I just show
you in the portfolio although s
commission is not
included but each strategy has at least
three times slippage and Commission in
the average trade okay so going back to
the portfolio and let's back test this
portfolio and let's see what we get so
this is a breakdown of the portfolio so
this is copper long copper short
gasoline long gasoline short Heat oil
long uh Euro US dollar short and then
euro dollar uh long and then
japaneseanime weights even without
position sizing the performance is
$861,000 since 2007 percent profitable
is about
54% our maximum portfolio draw down is
$62,000 so now our return to draw down
is
13.75 which is impossible to get in any
of the single
strategies uh separately and then if we
look at the equity curve now we have
have our smooth actica and look how
beautiful is this I mean of course we
have draw down here we have draw down
here draw down here but all in all we
are smoothly churning up all the time uh
this shows you where we are making new
highs with the green dots so you can see
here we have draw down here we have draw
down and this is the longest draw down
so you can see here it's
$41,000
$42,000 but it is about 7% at this point
in the portfolio looking at the trade
analysis we have about 3,000 trades with
an average of all the trades of
$292 now as I told you each strategy
average trade covers more than three
times slippage and commission but this
is averaging all the strategies together
for short and long periodical analysis
since 2007 we are profitable of course
every year except 2018 where we lost
$50,000 this is the most important part
of the portfolio this is the daily
Equity correlation analysis so that
means we are looking at the daily
returns of each strategy and we are
seeing how correlated it is with the
other of course I build it I select the
strategies on purpose to show this
because this is what you what you're
aiming for it's not necessarily you're
going to get this uh in the beginning
but you know the more strategies you
have the easier it's going to get to
this but this is your your ambition is
to get zero correlated strategy now I
know it doesn't look like zero but
believe me this is zero .12 0.01 09 all
these are considered zero the only High
correlation we have is here so this is
heating oil long and this is gasoline
long and they are .16 now this is
considered very very low correlation but
in our portfolio here this is the
highest correlation now here I want to
point out a very important takeaway
which is the diversification doesn't
come usually from the instrument in the
beginning the style of the strategy and
the direction of the strategy have a
huge impact on the diversification in a
portfolio so yes you can have
diversification from other markets but
even on the same Market just by
separating long and short and building
separately on those uh directions on the
same instrument you will get much better
diversification than building long and
short in the same strategy now of course
Trend following is a perfect match for
meere version strategies so even though
this whole portfolio was built on Trend
following strategies breakout strategies
it is actually a very good idea to mix
it with Mir version strategy because Mir
version
strategies by definition they are not
correlated also they have higher win
rates so they will bring the win rate uh
up also you can add to the mix
volatility breakout strategies because
they are usually also not correlated to
this type of strategy and to learn how
to build volatility breakout strategies
watch this video and I will see you
[Music]
there
[Music]
