check the rotation strategies were very
popular in the 90s many hedge funds and
billions of dollars are still invested
in this strategy in some flavor or
another in this video I will show you
how simple it is to implement such a
strategy in today's market and you will
be able to beat the stock index first of
all let's start with the definition the
stock market is divided into 11 sectors
this classification is done by the gics
this is the global industry
classification standard those 11 sectors
are subdivided into 24 industry groups
69 Industries and 158 sub Industries and
these are the 11 sectors we have the
healthcare materials real estate
Consumer Staples consumer services
financials and Technology now for
example the health sector includes
Pharmaceuticals medical devices
Healthcare biotech stocks insurance
companies while consumer discretionary
include retail e-commerce hotel luxury
goods and Leisure and travel industry
basically all the public companies that
are listed on the stock exchange are
categorized into an industry and then
into a sector so instead of holding
individual stocks you can hold a sector
that holds many stocks inside it and
therefore you are diversifying into that
sector in today's market we are
fortunate because we have many types of
ETFs representing those sectors we can
invest in one ETF that buys all the
stocks in the sector or in subdivision
of this sector for example here we have
the U.S sectors represented by spiders
ETF so each ETF represents one sector
and you can see here we have 11. also we
have the U.S small cap sectors
represented by ETFs and we have the
global sectors now these are the major
ETFs representing those sectors but of
course you can have sub sectors
Industries sub-industries and so on so
forth also for each sector you don't
have a single ETF so for example these
are the ETFs representing the 11 sectors
issued by the spider but also we have
the same sectors represented by
different ETFs from Vanguard the reason
is because the US is very liquid and
easily we can have competition
representing those sectors targeting
your our money also I want to bring your
attention that even though we have the
same sectors they don't actually work in
the same way and here I brought two
examples so this is Vanguard the energy
index and we can see we have 99.72
represented by the energy sector and
0.18 percent represented by basic
materials 0.1 percent in utilities same
sector represented by the spiders has
one hundred percent in energy here is
for example the top 10 holding for the
Vanguard energy sector and we can see
Excel mobile is 22.8 percent Chevron is
14.8 percent konoka Phillips 7.3 and if
we look at the top Holdings in the
spiders energy sector we can see Exxon
is 23 Chevron is 18 and konoka Phillips
is 4.46 so the the difference is Big
that's why the same rotation strategy
implemented on the U.S sectors using the
spider ETF will behave differently will
produce different results than if you
invested using the Vanguard ETFs because
each ETF has a different algorithm to
pick the allocation for each stock in
that sector now that is not a glitch
because depending on the manager running
that
ETF they can have a different algorithm
and I can show you here for example how
easy it is so for example this is the
technology services and we can see that
Microsoft is the big cap in the sector
so I can choose my ETF to represent the
same weight or to represent equal weight
or to represent price per earning and so
on so forth so there are million ways to
represent each sector for our purposes
we will stick with Vanguard and spider
ETFs these these are the most liquid
ETFs you can get in and out with minimal
slippage and sometimes zero slipping now
let's build our rotational strategy so
we have 11 sectors every month we will
look at the best performing sectors and
we will invest in those sectors that
means we will not put our money in all
sectors equally we will pick the top
five sectors every month to invest in
and that's why it's called rotational
because every month you measure again
and you rotate into the best performers
and rotate out of the worst performance
and this strategy is based on the
concept that all these sectors perform
differently every month and we can check
that on the chart so these are all the
spider sectors and we can see this is
one year performance even though all
these sectors are part of the S P 500
and if you buy all of them equally you
will get the same performance of the S P
500 but we can see clearly that they are
not all the same for example here the
xlk is 31 performing this year while the
xlu is minus 12.8 percent so our
strategy revolves around three months so
every three months we check the
performance of these sectors so for
example if we are doing this strategy
today the past performance of the last
three months XLE is number one
it made 14 percent
xlc 2.9 XLF 2.1
XLV minus 1.3 and the fifth one is xlb
which is minus two percent but even
minus two percent beats minus 2.4
percent so that's it the strategy is
extremely simple every month we check
the performance of the past three months
of those 11 sectors we pick the top five
we invest 20 in each and we hold until
the end of the month and then we repeat
this again now this type of strategy
rotational strategies cannot be tested
in any platform in fact most retail
platforms they cannot test this type of
strategy but thankfully we have a free
tool that we can do the testing with so
this is the tool we are using it's
called portfolio visualizer you can use
it for free to test this strategy so
here I added the 11 sectors that we are
going to test these are 11 sectors used
using the Vanguard ETFs you can see we
are using the three months look back
period to see which one is performing
the best
and then we will invest in the top five
assets the condition we have is the
sector has to be above its six month
moving average we will trade at end of
the month and we will compare with the
Spy so let's run the test and here we
have the three portfolios so at the
bottom here this is the S P 500 sector
so since 2006 this is the data I have
here until September 2023 the S P 500
was compounding at 9.3 percent with a
maximum drawdown of 50 percent and a
worse year performance of 36.8 percent
if we buy all these sectors equally that
is the equal weight portfolio we can see
we perform a slightly worse in terms of
money slightly better in terms of
drawdown but this is our portfolio we
are making slightly more money 9.9
percent but the amazing part is this the
maximum drawdown is about 20 percent so
instead of 50 we're about 20 the worst
year is 16.29 instead of 36. so even
though we are slightly ahead in terms of
money
but this this is huge because we are
less than half the drawdown that means
we enhance our drawdown by more than 100
and this is easily shown here you can
see our blue line which is our portfolio
and this is the equal and the Spy alone
you can see in 2008 crash how we are
capped at around 20 percent and this is
the covet crisis we are capped at around
10 percent and you can see the model
selection we are basically investing in
the top five sectors by investing 20
percent of our capital in each sector
and you can see it is sometimes in cash
because the sector is below is six month
moving average so strategies like these
makes a lot of sense then Buy and Hold
also it makes a lot of sense for people
who don't have time to trade also it
makes a lot of sense for people who are
trading but they want to also diversify
and other buckets so if you are a
student if you are working full time if
you are trading but have extra money to
invest you can use those type of
strategies because they are very easy to
manage it takes like 15 minutes 20
minutes a month to implement such a
strategy so this is our strategy making
about 10 compound annual growth rate
with about 20 Roda we can further
enhance the strategy by not allocating
the money equally to each sector but by
allocating the money based on volatility
and this is the result that we will get
so now we enhance our return to 11.29
and we reduce our drawdown to 18 also
our worst year goes down to minus one
three seven now this is huge if you are
calculating your performance every year
but of course you still have this
drawdown and you can see the difference
now in the model selection you can see
now even though we have the five sectors
for example in September we are only
invested in this sector and in August we
are investing 35.7 while the other
sector is 64.29 so you can see we are
not holding five blindly 20 each but we
are allocating based on the volatility
of that sector and that's why we are
extracting more profit and reducing our
drawdown this can be further enhanced
using different methodologies and and I
use those methodologies to build
different portfolios so here in the VIP
plus Community where I have all these
portfolios these are all portfolios
using some version of this rotational
momentum strategy so for example here I
have the core and US sector rotation and
for example I introduced this portfolio
last month
and it trades all these sectors so the
Vanguard
U.S sectors the global sectors and the
small cap sectors and then it uses some
version of rotational strategy to invest
in and if we look at the PDF file that
comes with this portfolio you can see
that we are making
15.38 percent compound annual growth
rate with 15.9 percent drawdown so as
you can see we enhance our return and we
enhance our drawdown by using different
flavor of this rotational strategy algo
trading is not for everyone but
investing it is for everyone and with
strategies like this you have no excuse
not to invest in the financial Market
but you need to do it with a system the
system will take all the emotions away
we'll take all the research all the news
all the spikes away and it becomes
extremely easy to invest your money
those rotational strategies momentum
systems have been researched with more
than 400 white papers already invested
with billions of dollars so they are
very robust they've been working for the
last 100 years and there is no reason
not to expect them to keep working for
the next hundred years to learn more
strategies like this watch this video
and I will see you there
[Music]
thank you
[Music]
