would you like a system with this kind
of performance in this video I will show
you how I took a regular indicator and
modified it to build this system back in
1976 Larry Williams built a technical
indicator called the ultimate oscillator
basically it measures the true range and
the bank pressure using three averages
and its weight each one differently and
it comes up with an oscillator this
oscillator Smooths out the regular
oscillators and basically produce a
different curve if you use it to trade A
Mir version strategy following in Larry
Williams footsteps I built my own
indicator which is called KCC perc
basically it measures the changes in the
clothes and then normalize it to get an
oscillat and also that can be used to
build Mir reversion strategies with the
goal of building a different Equity
curve than the other oscillators and
then the next logical step is I took the
ultimate oscillator concept and applied
it to the KCC indicator basically I took
three different time frames of the KCC
perent indicator and then average them
together and smooth the indicator to get
a different oscillator that can be used
to build mirror version systems but the
idea is to get a different Equity care
here we are in multichart and I have
here the S&P 500 represented by E mini
Futures going back to 2006 and I plotted
below four indicators so here we have
the RSI 2 with 30 and 70 highlighted and
then below it I have the ultimate
oscillator so the ultimate oscillator
default values is 74 and 28 then on top
I have the KCC indicator this is the one
I built and this is the most recent
indicator which is the ultimate C
percent so the ultimate C percent
indicator takes three period of KC c%
average them down and then normalize it
with a smoothing factor to get this
oscillator from this chart we can see
that many times they do align together
so for example here you see this is
peing down this is peeking down this is
peeking down this is not and here we
have four of them peeking down so even
though the four indicators are measuring
some kind of mean reversion but they are
not the same and of course we can prove
that with building a strategy using each
indicator and we can see the results so
now I have four charts of the same
instrument the E mini futures of the S&P
500 but now each chart has a different
strategy applied to it using the
different indicator so here top left is
the
rsi2 bottom left is the ultimate
oscillator and then top right is the KCC
perc and bottom left is the ultimate at
c% and here are the report cards for
each strategy so this is the RSI and we
can see we are making
$93,000 since 2006 this is up to end of
September
2023 74% win rate with 5 to1 return to
draw down ratio our maximum draw down is
19% the ultimate oscillator is making
close to the same amount of money
188,000 also very close return to draw
down and a little bit higher percent win
rate but it's doing all this with have
the trades so here we have 424 trades
and ultimate oscillator is
244 trades very close draw down 21% and
$40,000 now on this side we have the KCC
per and the ultimate c% so kc% making
$257,000 with a 7 to1 return to draw
down ratio and that's because we have
more money and lower draw down so the
draw down even though it's close in the
amount of money but it happens at the
end and that's why it's 16% the win rate
is
70% but now we even go lower in terms of
Trades and then the ultimate C percent
making
$27,000 with 11 to1 return to draw down
ratio so even though we are making less
money but we are are making a lot lower
draw down that's 18,000 which comes to
13% we still 70% win rate same as KCC
perc but now we even lower number of
Trades now all these strategies are
optimized just to find a stable region
and not for the purpose of the highest
net profit so let's focus on the
ultimate C perc so I did an optimization
for the ultimate C perc and the number
of optimizations is
5,700 and if we filter a 100 Trade
minimum and $100 on average per trade
then we will get a lower number of
strategies that comes to 2,200 so that's
almost 40% of strategies so first thing
we notice is all the strategies well 40%
they're all profitable so the lowest is
28,000 and the highest is 260,000 now
you can sort in any ways but if we sort
by return to draw down you can see the
top 30 is above 9 to one uh return to
draw down ratio so that's very good and
you can see here we have all kind of
values so I am not worried about picking
any ones there are almost 2,000
strategies making above
$800,000 so that is great news for this
new indicator because it's very stable
it produce different result than the KCC
perc with fewer trades I mean granted we
want more trades but we can apply this
indic indicator to multiple instruments
to get more trades of course I didn't
build this indicator to get the best net
profit or the lowest number of Trades
and so on I buil it for the single
purpose of producing a different Equity
curve and let me show you what I mean so
now we are in portfolio Trader of
multicharts and I applied the four
strategies on the same instrument so if
we back test this now so this is the
four strategy G's combined together we
have almost 8,000 trades with 73% win
rate on average making
$8,000 annually since 2006 we only have
one year that ended up in a loss and so
far this year for the past 9 months we
had 48 trades of the four systems and on
average making $2,000 per trade and so
far we made
$92,000 and this is the most important
part you can see the correlations
between these strategies is on the
higher side but they are not extremely
high now first thing we notice is even
though the ultimate C perc is a
derivative of the KCC percent the
correlation it's not even close to 80
it's 63 and also the ultimate c% it's
medium correlated with the RSI and also
medium correlated with the ultimate
in fact if anything the RSI 2 and the
ultimate oscillator are kind of on the
high side correlated but here is the
most important part if you are trading a
single system on the S&P 500 futures the
E minis you have its cousin which is the
micro Futures the micro Futures is
on10th of the e- mini that means each
move in the S&P 500 E mini is equal to
10 times the move in in the S&P 500
micro Futures so instead of trading one
contract on the EMES you can trade 10
contracts in the micro Futures and the
reason I'm telling you this is because
now you can have five strategies like
the one I showed you trade two micro
Futures contracts in each strategy and
those will produce a better smoother
Equity curve than a single contract on
one strategy on the S&P e Min I know
it's a lot but basically you're trading
a portfolio with the same amount of
money dedicated to a single strategy on
The e- Minis and that is why I am
building a huge template that trades
only me revering strategies using all
these different indicators with
different exits and different filters
remember all these strategies that I
just show you they have no filter at all
zero not even the 200 day moving average
to watch How I build the case CC perc
indicator watch this video and I will
see you
[Music]
there
