I often get a question about why I use
the RSI strategy in many of my videos so
I thought I dedicate a video to answer
this question so in this video I will
show you what is the RSI how to
construct an RSI strategy on the S&P 500
how to construct many versions of the
strategy combine them all in a portfolio
and show you the performance of this
portfolio with some filters so first of
all what is the RSI RSI is the relative
strength index and basically it is a
momentum indicator that measures the
changes in price and plot it as an
oscillator now any oscillator can be
used effectively in a me reversion
strategy now what is me reversion in my
hand here I have an elastic band so this
is the normal state of the band and if I
exert pressure on it it will stretch but
once I release that pressure it comes
back to its normal State and the
instrument price behave the same way
so normally it sits in a band and when
you apply a buying pressure or selling
pressure with speed the price will move
away from that zone quickly and then it
tends to get back to that zone so that's
basically me reversion on price okay now
we know why I do the RSI in a me
reversion strategy the question is why
do I do it most often on the S&P 500 and
the answer to that is really easy I want
to make money so I'm not concerned with
how sexy the strategy is or what type of
instrument or what time frame I only
want to make money in the easiest way
possible and the S&P 500 is really
suited for long Mir version now this is
not a fluke in fact you can test this
and I teach my students how to do that
test so basically you will know this
instrument will works really well with
long and me reversion each market has
their own characteristics and the S&P
500 changed that characteristics back in
the '90s and it switch from a trend
following to a m version instrument now
that switch doesn't happen overnight
usually takes I don't know months
sometimes years to slowly switch to a
different characteristics and usually
that is when more Traders trade the same
instrument so think of the S&P 500 we
have Futures we have options we have
ETFs and inside there are like 500
stocks that also have Futures and
options and there are all these
arbitrages that are done on these so
that create a lot of noise in the market
short term and that characteristics
tends to come out as mere reversion okay
so talk is cheap as they say and it's
very easy to come up with a conclusion
after the fact but as algo Traders we of
course don't care about that we only
care about testing and validating our
strategies with statistical numbers so
before we do any testing let me show you
the behavior of the RSI on the S&P 500
at the top here I have the S&P 500 and
below it I have four RSI indicators so
this is RSI Period 2 which I usually
refer to it as RSI 2 and then this is
four periods eight periods and the 14
periods at the bottom which is the
default in every platform on the planet
now the levels I put here is 25 and 75
me reversion meaning we will go long
when it's below a level and we will exit
when it is above a level because with
miror version you're going long on a
pullback and you're exiting when it is
overbought so clearly you can see from
the chart that the RSI 2 which is RS i
period 2 shows many signals in the same
period of time and then the RSI 4 Less
signals RSI 8 almost one signal here and
RSI 14 actually no signals at all to go
long there is a signal here to short but
we are just going long so from this
chart we know that we will get more
trades with shorter period and less
trades with longer period so that is
observation one observation two is we
get more extreme measurements with
shorter period and less extreme with
longer periods for example look at this
RS I 2 here the value is 2.5 here is the
same bar the value is 19 and on RSI 8
the value is 41 on RSI 14 the value is
53 since November of last year till
April the r r i 14 didn't go below 50 so
just from looking at the charts we can
expect the behavior that the rsi2 will
have more signals more extreme
measurements and the longer period you
go less extreme measurements and less
signals and we can deduct that the RSI
14 or RSI 10 and above it's more suited
as a filter rather than a signal but
then shorter time frame you can use the
RSI now to enter exit a trade so that
means it's a signal not a filter so here
I have the es mini S&P 500 futures and I
have the RSI 2 which is the RSI Period 2
strategy applied which is when the RSI
Period 2 Go below 25 we buy and then
when the RSI Period 2 go above 75 we
sell the strategy behaves really well on
the S&P 500 on average we get about 500
$20 with 70 almost 74% win rate the
strategy made
$183,000 on a single contract with 4 to1
return to draw down ratio this is the
equity curve and we suffer a little bit
here in covid and in 2018 and this is
the annual period analysis so we lost
only in 2018 since
2016 and every other year is profit
obviously the strategy is doing very
well it's been doing very well for the
past 5 years with its all variations so
I have many variations of the strategy
even on the channel and in fact just
last week I had a really good trade
where a single contract produced about
$6,000 in profit now this is not an
optimized strategy so many people think
that I optimize the rsi2 to produce this
in fact the RSI 2 just like I showed you
produce really good signals on the S&P
500 because of the characteristics of
the S&P 5 500 but the RSI 2 produce more
signals and that's why I use it more
often but now I will show you that all
in fact the spectrum of the RSI produce
good results so I will optimize the RSI
2 from 2 to4 which is the default in uh
every platform and then we will optimize
the level to buy so if it goes below
five all the way to 45 in step of five
and we will exit when it's 55 all the
way to 95 step of five now why I'm doing
this because like I showed you the RSI
14 will not have a chance to go below
five or 25 so we need to give it more uh
leeway anyway we will see all the
combinations we have about ,000
combination so because of these
combinations sometimes you will not have
trade so I can show you here we have
zero so for example period 6 is zero
it's actually not zero this is one trade
but it's not closed so it enter once
below five and then didn't reach 95 at
all so that's why the trade stays open
and then this is uh seven below five no
trades at all and then 7 below 10 that's
also a trade that is not closed that's
why it's showing zero and we go further
down so we have you see we have many
that are zero trade so first of all we
need to filter the number of trades pick
anything about 70 remember we have uh
1,54 strategy so if we add this filter
we end up with 288 so that's not bad
that's about
30% of
strategies produce more than 70 traes
and let's look now at the first
observation sort by net profit the
lowest is 303 the lowest so all
strategies that produce more than 7
trades all of them are profitable and
the profits from 33 all the way to
238,000 now this is not including
slippage and commission so let's look at
the average trade so the minimum average
trade is
255 so of course that's more than cover
our slippage and commission both in and
out so definitely all these strategies
are viable strategies and the best one
is about
$2,000 on average so now let's see what
parameters produce these results if we
go by maximum profit we see that the RSI
2 is on top and then followed by three
sometimes four here two and three mostly
is two and then next one is three and
then if I want to look the lowest draw
down which is 19,000 so this is RSI 3
three and then two and then three and so
on then if I want to go to return to
draw down ratio again I have 2 3 2 and
three on the top if I want to go by
average trade I have four 6 49 47 and
then if I want to go number of Trades so
the lowest number of Trades is 47
remember low number means I pay less
commission than high number and then if
I want to go by win per this is
81% and the RSI period is 8 3 4 7 9 and
again these are longer periods so so far
longer periods produce better average
trade and better win percent and if I
want to go by profit Factor 6 3 10 7
again the longer periods are better and
then if I want to go by maximum
consecutive winners again longer periods
are better although here we see number
two at number 11 and the lowest maximum
consecutive losers is 2 three first of
all 30% of my optimization producing
profitable optimizations this is not
about finding a strategy then enhancing
it with Filter stop- loss profit Target
no it's already profitable with good
average trade so that's really a huge
Testament to the RSI but remember it is
huge because we matched it to the right
instrument and right direction but as a
proof of my robustness that the RSI in
fact all periods produced really really
good results not only that I can get a
different Equity curve from choosing a
different RSI period and entry exit
level that will help me when I construct
a portfolio so here I have a portfolio
of 10 strategies all the strategies are
applied to the S&P 500 since 2006 uh all
the way to May 2024 and I apply
different St so this is bar two so this
is the RSI Period 2 we buy when it's
below 30 we exit when it is above 85 so
this is 3 1060 230 65 43585 and so on so
forth the these are only 10 strategies I
basically picked the top uh strategy
that is in the top 10 for every criteria
this is what we get it's a about 1 and
a.2 million
3.2 return to draw down ratio now first
I want to draw your attention to the
correlation Matrix here and and even
though we are using the same instrument
the same strategy which is the RSI I'm
only changing different periods and
levels and look at these correlations I
know we have some of them like 93
correlated but a lot of them are less
correlated so for example look at this
one 47. 51 and this is the equity curve
and this is
2020 Co dip so this is a huge dip is
about
$400,000 but of course at that time we
are about
900,000 but still so this is a big uh
drop now you can pick and choose the
strategies from the previous
optimization to lower this draw down
either you need a good software to do it
or a lot of trial and error to do it but
I will skip that part and just try to
enhance it with a filter remember our
strategies here they don't have stop-
loss they don't have profit Target and
they don't have any filter now instead
of optimizing the best filter for each
strategy I'm just going to use a single
filter for all strategies not because I
want to do a robust filter it's just
because I don't have the time to
optimize all these strategies with
better filter so this is amazing result
from a single strategy on a single
instrument this is exactly the same
style of strategy I'm not even changing
the style same indicator yet get a lot
of diversification just from changing
the look back period and the entry exit
level okay so now I introduced the
volatility filter which is basically we
will not take a trade unless the
volatility is going down so our total
profits go down from 1.5 to 1.2 almost
but more importantly we increase our
return to draw down to 7 so that is a
tremendous achievement single filter is
the same filter on all strategy produced
this amazing result and we can see how
different our Equity curve is remember
the 2020 dip which is about
$400,000 that is completely erased from
our portfolio this is our annual return
since 2010 we don't have any losing year
average trade about
$1,100 77 wi% so overall amazing amazing
result and also the correlation is
better of course you cannot see this
because multiart doesn't doesn't allow
us to do this so I already saved it so
this is the RSI classic portfolio with
no filter and this is the RSI classic
with the volatility filter taking the
same strategy but only when the
volatility is going down and the same
filter for all 10 strategy first of all
here uh I mean I mean probably you
cannot see it from the colors but we
have lower correlations so look at this
the average correlation here was 7 here
it's .5 the lowest here was4 six and
here the lowest
is18 so not only we increased return to
draw down we increased our win rate we
reduced the draw down we increased our
average trade we also reduced our
correlation with the same filter it's
only a single filter this is the
difference between the two correlations
so only one strategy where it got a
little bit worse so strategy number one
and strategy number five lost a little
bit uh increas ined its correlation a
little bit and strategy number one and
strategy number one nine increased the
correlation all other correlations went
down all of them the takeaway is the RSI
is an extremely robust strategy when it
is match with the right instrument you
cannot go wrong with the RSI any period
any level on the S&P 500 plus you can
spend more time and add different
filters to get even more diversification
from the same Str strategy save
instrument if you like this video then
you will love this next one
[Music]
