every Trader regardless of their skill
level will reach a point in the future
where they have to decide to deploy the
strategy live in the markets with real
money usually that decision comes with a
lot of Doubt or high risk taking but in
reality it doesn't have to be that way
we have many methods to test if the
strategy is robust enough to perform in
the future as it was performing in the
back test regardless of the method
chosen to verify the strategy will work
the workflow is called robustness
testing basically we are testing the
strategy to get a confidence level that
it will perform in the future on unseen
data very close to what it gave us in
the back test in this video I will take
you a step by step on how to test your
strategy robustness first let's get
something clear there is nothing on
Earth that can guarantee the strategy
will perform in the future the same as
the back test if it exist then everybody
will already know it and that edge will
be gone so instead we are looking for a
confidence level we just want to get a
high confidence level that this strategy
will perform on unseen data having said
that there are strategies that's been
working for the past I don't know 300
years and will keep working in the
future but there are some caveats so
Trend following been working for a long
time there are millions of white papers
on the subject there are billions of
dollars traded with hedge funds using
these systems but the caveat is you need
to trade a portfolio of trend following
strategies on a portfolio of instruments
and even then there are no guarantees
that you are profitable in any year but
on any 5 10 year Rolling returns you are
profitable for sure but there is no
guarantee that Trend following using a
200 day moving average will work on the
S&P 500 this year and just to enforce
the statement that there are no
guarantees I would like to quote Jim
Simon who ran Medallion fund for 20 plus
years with returns annually of 40 plus
every single year at one point in time
in financial crisis he wanted to switch
all his Systems off because he did not
have 100% trust that his systems will
perform in the financial crisis as it
did in the back test and in the uh past
10 years so to reiterate we only want to
have a high confidence level that our
strategy will perform okay so I will
illustrate this with examples first of
course we need to have a code for a
strategy because all this without code
means nothing because you cannot test
anything manually enough times with
enough accuracy so we need to back test
with code and I will use trategy Quant X
in these examples because it's it's code
but you're using a graphical interface
to perform the test so starting with the
simpl strategy if the close is greater
than the 200 100 day moving average we
will enter a position long and if the
close is lower than the 200 day moving
average we will exit the position and be
flat now this strategy is tested on the
Spy this is the S&P 500 ETF because we
have a lot of data since 1993 we are
using the stock size by Price method for
money management with maximum size of
5,000 shares starting capital is 10,000
that means every time I get a signal to
enter a position I will use all my cap
capital in my trading account to buy the
maximum amount of shares hold it sell
until I get the exit signals and then
the next signal again I will use all my
Capital to buy the maximum amount of
shares this is the best way to test
stocks and ETFs while with Futures it's
best to test with a single contract if
we run the back test this is the
strategy on the S&P 500 it's 105 trades
about an average of of
$1,000 and these are the return in years
and you see it's a very few number of
Trades which is expected because 200 day
moving average is a long moving average
so we tested the strategy the strategy
is profitable good return to draw down
ratio good number of Trades how would I
trust that this strategy will perform in
the future the same as it did in the
back test for a strategy with a single
variable like this one we have one
variable which which is the look back
period of the moving average basically
we want to change the look back period
and see if the strategy is still
performing and not falling apart the
best way is to illustrate this with an
example let me put this axis so this is
the x axis this is the Y AIS so the x-
axis will be our variable and the Y AIS
will be our fitness function so this
could be
the net profit the draw down the average
trade and so on so forth we take our
strategy variable so in this case we are
looking at the 200 day moving average so
we start with the 200 day moving average
and then we change this at steps of 5%
up and down so if this was 200 then we
change with 5% so the next one will be
210 and let's say these are the result
for 220
230 so let's say we are looking at the
net profit and these are the results
when we test so we test 200 look back
this is the net profit let's say this is
50,000 and this is
60,000 and so on so forth so we test 210
we get about 51,000 we test 220 we get
about 40,000 and so on now subjectively
this looks like a stable strategy so in
order to verify the robustness of the
strategy we are looking for
25% consecutive bars so since each bar
here represent 5% so that means we are
looking at five consecutive bars and in
those five consecutive bars we are
looking for less than 25% change between
the highest high and the lowest low so
to put this on the graph I'm looking for
five bars let's say these are five bar
so 1 2 3 4 5 and I'm looking for the
chain between the highest high and the
lowest low so this is the highest bar
and this is the lowest bar and I want
this change to be less than
25% once I find five bars that satisfy
these two condition I pick the middle
bar as my robust bar so in this case
this is Bar number number three it's
always Bar number three so for example
if I pick these bars so one two so these
are my bars this is the highest high
this is the lowest low and then this
change need to be lower than 25% so that
is the methodology for a single variable
strategy basically we are looking for
our fitness function if it's n profit
average trade maximum draw down to not
change a lot in 25% change of the
variable which makes a lot of sense that
means if 200 day and 190 190 should not
drop 30% in performance from 200 if it
did that means we are over optimizing on
200 now let's see how that looks like in
the actual strategy okay so I saved the
strategy and I loaded the strategy in
the optimizer so we will use a simple
optimization and we have only one thing
to optimize which is the look back
period so I switched to manual and in
order to change this to 25% up and down
we start from 1 200 25% is 150 so we'll
go from 150 to 250 in step of 10 so
that's 25% down 25% up now most retail
packages and even some professional
packages actually work in numbers and
not percent so to illustrate this 10 /
by 200 is 05 so that's 5% but going from
150 to 160 10 divided by 160 that's
actually not 5% it is
6.25% and this problem exists like I
mentioned in all packages so we just
have to go with it okay so I'm using
exactly the same thing same data and
same money management and I'm not using
any ranking because we will use all the
strategies we only have 11 of them so we
go to progress and we start and it's
very quickly done one of these
strategies they will all have the same
values and we go to the optimization
profile and we will have this bar so if
you don't have this optimization chart
you need to go to settings
configuration and you need to switch
this off don't store data for 3D charts
this option by default is on to save on
space but of course if you have
strategic qu X then you definitely have
space so just switch it off and now
let's go back to our Theory so this is
the net profit and this is the SMA
period so from 150 to 250 so let's bring
this here and we are looking for a
difference between any consecutive five
bars to be less than 25% so to see the
exact numbers we can scroll down here
and if we sort by the period we can see
this is the net profit so for example
this is 1 2 3 4 5 so the highest value
here is 89 minus the lowest which is 67
299 and we divide by the lowest and we
multiply by
100 so that's the difference in
percentage it's 32% so that is too much
that means I cannot pick this one 170 as
the robust value so if I start from 67
to 106 same problem 105 to 89 so let's
see if this one works this one is 28% so
this one is on the edge and you can say
Okay I accept it or not less than 25
definitely is much better and worse than
25 basically the confidence level is
lower so let's move again so this one is
82 and 112 that's of course going to be
worse and then 106 and 20 that looks
good so the highest value is
12531 minus the lowest value which is
105 463 divided by the same value time
100 this is 14% so between 106 and 120
this is the middle so 220 so the look
back of 220 is a robust point for my
strategy I can pick this level and I
will have high confidence that my
strategy will perform in the future very
close to the back test now also if I go
one step up so between 105 and 106 this
will be also robust so that means the
middle one is 230 so 220 or 230 are
robust points so now I have a
statistical method of verifying if my
strategy is robust or not and where that
point exist on my curve of test now of
course because it's a single variable I
can extend this test so I can go all the
way from 100 to 300 and find any five
consecutive bars at 5% intervals and
pick the middle one as the best if it
falls within 25% also we did this for
net profit you can repeat exactly the
same process for average trade for
maximum draw down for return to draw
down for Sharp ratio for any Fitness
function you want you want the change in
any five bars less than 25% between the
highest high and the lowest low of that
Fitness function now let's go with a
little bit more complicated strategy
that has two variables so here we have a
two variable strategy if the short
moving average is greater than the long
moving average we will go long and if
the short moving average is is lower
than the long moving average we will
exit we are using same data same money
management rules and same instrument and
this is the results we get now we get
few trades and this is the result so
same thing we will go to the optimizer
in strategy Quant X and I loaded the
strategy which is the 2 SMA and now we
have two variables to optimize so again
we switch to manual the long variable is
the same 150
to 250 step 10 and the short moving
average 25% from 50 is around 15
remember we cannot get exactly because
we're not using percentages we're using
numbers so we can go from 35 to 65 in
step of three that should bring us
closer to 5% per step so nothing is
changed here in the data and the and the
money management no ranking as we are
storing all strategy
so let's start the process also remember
any strategy you pick in the
optimization results will have the full
results so we pick one of them so now
looking at the 2D chart I cannot pick
two variables I can only pick one
variable so this is the variable short
SMA and then I have to pick the long SMA
separately so in order to achieve the
same calculation we need to look at 3D
chart so if we switch to 3D and then
here here we will have short SMA and
here we will have the long SMA and this
is the net profit so let's maximize this
and see what we get so the green line
the maximum green line is about
$25,000 the 180w switches to almost
light green 180,000 so that's our
25% so anything within the green is
within 25% so if I'm looking at this is
the green area if I want to look at five
adjacent bars that are all green they
will be here this is 250
240 230 20 and 10 all these squares are
green so the middle part will be 230 and
then if I look at the short moving
average we have one that intersects with
230 so you see all these squares are
green and then the middle one with 230
is 47 because we're starting from 35 and
each step is three so this one will be
47 so in this case 47 and
230 is our robust point for the strategy
remember this is our graph we want to
achieve the same thing less than 25%
change but now we are doing it on a
surface of course you can see this in a
surface and this is how it looks like so
again you're looking at the Green Point
because the green color is within 25%
change and we can see all these green
parts are good so
4750 also will be a robust point also
there's another presentation which is
bars maybe it's a little bit hard to see
and then points which is even harder to
see so the idea is exactly the same but
because we have two variables we need to
look at a surface instead of a bar chart
and the surface is the same thing the
intersection has to have two on the
right two on the left two on the North
two on the south where the middle is a
stable area that means between any five
squares the percent change is less than
25% now this is done manually so we are
looking at a surface manually and we
need to figure out that point so how
about if we want to do this uh
automatically and and strategy Quant X
has something really good for that which
is system parameter parameterization so
the same optimization if we look one tab
further this is system parameter
parameterization so now this test
doesn't tell you which point is the best
point to trade is the optimal point to
trade this is just telling you if your
strategy is robust or not so what this
test does it takes the median value for
a number of parameters in fact it takes
the median value for hundreds of
parameters look at this so all these
parameters are calculated for you and
for example so this is net profit the
median value is
$172,000 that means for all these
strategies the middle point is 172,000
this is not the average this is the
middle point and then we have our
original value so our original value is
the 50 day moving average above the 200
day moving average we get these values
so now we divide our original by the
median and we follow the same rules we
are looking for these values to be less
than
125% so the change is less than
25% so this is for example 104% that
means our original value is only 4%
higher than the median value so that's
acceptable of course if it's lower
that's even better because you can see
here our return to draw down is 15 but
the median is 21 so that means we are
already lower than the median so we
expect the value in the future to be a
lot higher and you see all the values
are less than 125% and we can use these
comparisons in our robustness test
so when we are in the retest if you go
to the system parameter
parameterization and you go to filtering
you can add these conditions in so let's
say the net profit so we are looking for
the net profit of the median lower than
125% of the net profit so I can add this
condition in my retesting and that's
what I mean by we can do this with an
automation I don't need to look at a
three surface and like I mentioned sqx
has literally a 100 parameters that you
can pick and choose which one to work
for you now there is no sense in adding
you know 100 parameters or even 10 you
should pick and choose the one that's
most important I suggest average trade
win percent return to draw down ratio
and finally we come to test a strategy
that has more than two variables this is
an example of a strategy G with three
variables so I have the short SMA
greater than the long SMA and the really
short SMA greater than the short SM
that's a great naming but anyway we have
three variables so you can see we have
the short SMA long SMA and then the
really short SMA which is 10 basically
what I'm saying is I want the 10day
moving average greater than the 50-day
moving average and the 50-day moving
average greater than the 200 day moving
moving average if that happens I go long
I exit with the opposite condition you
as you can see we have 14 trades and
this is the strategy so again I load my
strategy in the optimizer and we are
doing Simple
optimization manual and this time we
have three variables so our original
Short moving average from 35 to 65 step
three our original 200 day moving
average 150 to 250 step 10 and now we
have a really short moving average so
25% of 10 is 7 and a half again we have
to go with the close approximation to
that number so we go from 7 to 13 step
one and we total combination is less
than 1,000 so we are saving all of them
again money management is the same thing
same data same everything so let's see
progress the test is done and if I click
on any strategy G it will bring the
whole data so now just like we had the
problem with the single variable to two
now from two to three we can only see
two in the surface so really short and
short really short and long or short and
long I cannot see the three variables so
the only way to do this is to go to
system parameter permutation and now
again I can use this ratio to find if my
strategy is robust or not so you see I
have 848 strategies if I pick the median
value for net profit this is it and this
is my original strategy and again I can
see the ratio if it's less than
25% then the strategy is robust now the
percent I picked 25% this is the
suggested optimal value of course for
you you can decide that 30 is better or
15 is better of course the lower the
percent the high higher the robustness
confidence level is but the less
strategies will go through this workflow
so that is the control number that will
decide how many strategies you will have
to pass the filter now there are other
methods that we didn't touch for example
zcore walk forward Matrix but they are
all based on exactly the same concept
that I just taught you which is you you
want to vary the variable by 20 to
30% and you want to make sure that you
have a stable region on those changes
now I take this concept a little bit
deeper in my Alo trading master class
and I go on a workflow using work
forward Matrix and system parameter
partiz once your strategy pass this
filter then you will have a high
confidence that this strategy will
perform in the live market like it did
in the back test and of course when you
have have multiple of these strategies
working in a portfolio then your
confidence is a lot higher because now
you are not depending on a single
strategy to make money but on many
strategies so even if one or two or
three fail even though you have high
confidence in them but even when they
fail you still have seven other
strategies performing in your portfolio
if you like this video then you will
love the next one
[Music]
