I get this question a lot from viewers
of the channel and from students in my
alga trading master class which is when
they build a strategy trading Futures
and then they want to take it to trade
cfds usually the strategy fails also the
following question usually is why should
I trade Futures instead of cfds if it is
available in this video I will show you
the huge differences between cfds and
Futures and which instrument that I
prefer to trade and which instrument
that you should be trading first of all
here is the definition tfd stands for
contract for difference and the first
thing that I will draw your attention to
is that cfd is a contract between the
buyer and the seller and in this case
the seller is the broker and this is the
major difference between cfds and
Futures I mean we haven't started yet
but this is the biggest cfds are a
product of the broker it's like you are
trading now with this broker only there
is no global trading happening there is
no counterparty your counterparty is the
broker that issued this cfd while
Futures are issued on the exchange and
they represent an underlying asset if
you buy a cfd on Microsoft you don't
hold any shares of Microsoft you're only
betting that the price is going up or
down with Futures you are betting on the
underlying asset and if you hold that
future till the expiry you will get a
hold of that asset now that we
understand the major difference between
the cfd and Futures let's go over
everything else and number one is
availability tfds are mainly available
in Europe and Australia they are illegal
in the US and heavily heavily regulated
in Canada to the point where they are
not available basically Futures on the
other hand are available globally
representing many assets about 300 as
the publishing of this video so for
availability we will award Futures a
point and cfd don't get the point number
two is variety if you features have huge
variety like I mentioned there are
almost 300 Futures contracts and more
are coming online but cfd is because
they are issued by a single broker
usually they are very limited and it
depends on the broker you trade with you
might have let's say around 20 cfd
contracts compared to the 300 plus
Futures Contract available globally so
for that we'll award a point to Futures
and zero for cfds number three on our
list is margin requirement Futures have
a big margin requirements depending on
the contract you are trading and this is
an example of merge requirements on
tradestation trade station carries about
100 Futures Contract and you can see the
overnight margin for many Futures
contracts so for example the micro
Russell is about 700 while the Bitcoin
Futures is about forty two thousand
dollars the Dax is about 31 000 Euros
and then if we go down this micro Euro
USD Futures contracts about 300 so from
their list you just saw you can see
there is a huge discrepancy between each
Futures Contract the merge requirement
also is affected by volatility tfds on
the other hand they have very low margin
requirements because the leverage built
in cfds is a lot bigger than Futures so
in this case we will give zero point to
Futures and 1.2 cfds number four on our
list is finance charges Futures have
fees related to trading them they are
usually commission slippage cfds on the
other hand they carry other premiums
because remember the cfd is another
derivative of that future so usually the
broker have some built-in premium fees
built in their price usually they get it
through the spread or through commission
or through both and probably you don't
see it sometimes but it is there so you
see of these usually are much more
expensive to trade than Futures and so
for that we will give one point to
Futures 0.2 cfd number five on our list
is convenience now Futures have many
things to take care of first of all they
don't move in like single digits like
pennies for example in stocks or in cfds
usually they have a minimum tick and
that minimum tick for example let's say
even if it's 0.01 like in oil it does
represent one cent it's usually
multiplied by a big point value to get
the move of that future contract and
it's different for every future contract
also Futures expire and that expiry
depends on the future contracts or some
of them expire every month and some of
them expire every quarter and the
liquidity of course is totally different
between each expiry and you have to roll
over your contract also there are fees
related to getting the feed of the
quotes for each contract so each
exchange have their own data feed and of
course they charge separately for that
all what I mentioned for futures does
not exist in cfd because cfd is a
product of the broker and usually the
product code will happily give you the
feed for free because they have gauge
the spread to make money off of you so
there is nothing to worry about in terms
of data feed expiry and big point value
minimum take usually all cfds move in
0.01 and the value of that is 0.01 so
for convenience we will give zero point
to Futures 1.2 cfds next thing we want
to look at is liquidity Futures
liquidity are governed by the market
participant so the more popular the
future contract is the more Traders
trading the more volume you get having
said that we already have more than
120 very liquid Futures Contract so you
have these on the other hand usually
they trade only popular instruments like
the indexes screwed and gold but you
know for the product available I will
give both of them a point so Futures
gets a point for liquidity they're very
liquid and cfds they are very liquid
when they are available for that broker
next thing on our list is guarantees so
cfd like I mentioned are a product of
the broker that means if this broker
goes under for whatever reason your
money is gone because you don't own any
asset this is a bet when you are buying
or selling cfds you are betting against
the broker there is no underlying asset
that you are owning so therefore your
counterparty risk is huge so definitely
if you want to trade cfds you need to
look for a big big bro okay so the
probability that they go under is
limited Futures on the other hand are
traded on in exchange and the exchange
is responsible to make sure that each
party is liquid and well capitalized So
when you buy a Futures Contract first of
all you're buying the underlying asset
and you can take delivery of that
underlying asset but also you don't need
to worry about who is buying or who is
selling on the other side because the
exchange will make sure that that party
have the money to cover whatever the bet
is just like they make sure that you
have enough money to cover that bet so
for that we will give one point to
Futures 0.2 cfds next thing we will take
care of is spread the spread is the
difference between the bid and the ask
basically it's the difference between
the price you buy at and the price you
sell at this spread usually is
controlled by liquidity so when you
trade Futures on the exchange the more
liquidity the closer the spread is and
usually for liquid Futures most liquid
Futures the spread is one tick that
means a minimum of one move so imagine
if it's a stock that means it's one cent
cfd is on the other hand because it's a
product of the broker the broker control
the spread artificially and in fact it's
very easy to check that because most of
the time your commission is built into
the spread and you can see very easy
that demo volume you do
the closer the spread will be it's like
in Forex because again your broker is
controlling the quotes so obviously we
will award one point to Futures and 0.2
cfds next thing on our list is
incentives future exchanges make money
by commission and data feed so they
don't make money on the spread because
they don't control this liquidity and
they have no commission from that part
the commission comes from Trading a
single contract and of course multiplied
by however many millions of contracts
traded so the more contracts traded the
more money they make so the incentive of
the exchange is to make it very very
liquid
very very honest so that more people
join this exchange to trade whatever
contract they are offering cfds on the
other hand are issued by a single broker
that single broker makes money through
spread and commission and through
premium built in so they don't make
money on data feed sometimes they don't
even make money on commission they say
it's free to trade but they built
everything else in the spread and most
of the time just like Forex they are
trading against you because they give
you huge leverage which increases your
probability to lose all your money to a
hundred percent so that's why they trade
against you not because they are smarter
so from that perspective they are
incentivized to bet against you so from
that perspective then the incentives is
aligned with you with the Futures
exchanges and it's not aligned with you
with the cfd broker so we will give one
point to Futures the 0.2 cfds now we
come to a quote what are the data feed
given by the exchanges and the broker to
all Traders on their platform so that
they can basically trade that instrument
so the exchanges give the data feed the
same globally so if you are in Canada in
the US and Brazil and the UK in
Australia and South Africa it doesn't
matter where you are you will receive
the same data feed like everybody else
see have these on the other hand it's a
product of the broker and the broker
decide what's the price of that
instrument is take oil futures for
example oil Futures are a derivative of
these part Futures so they are linked
and there are many arbitrators that make
this link very close to the original
price of the spot market and the
exchange give that data feed globally so
obviously then we will over 1.2 Futures
zero point to cfd next we have an
imported one which is leverage now both
Futures and cfds are leveraged products
Futures have a set leverage value built
into them and each Futures Contract have
a different leverage built into them so
for example the S P 500 e-mini contract
its leverage about 18 times now that
amount will change based on volatility
so when the volatility spikes The
Leverage will decrease and when the
volatility Goes Down The Leverage will
increase and this will hover between 16
and 20 for the s p 500. see you have
these on the other hand just like Forex
they are leveraged up to whatever you
like so if you are good with the broker
they can give you 200 to 1 100 to one
whatever you like it's lightly regulated
so they can do basically whatever they
like but usually it's like Forex where
it's heavily heavily leveraged now in
terms of rewarding points in this
category I will reward the point to
Futures and a point to cfds because both
of them are leveraged so although both
get one point but just remember 100x
Leverage is extremely extremely
dangerous it's like you just learn to
drive and I put you in a Formula One car
accidents are bound to happen and in
this case you lose your money finally we
will look at trading hours most Futures
Contract trade 24 hours they have
different liquidity even though they are
trading 24 hours so for example again
the S P 500
during New York session day session they
are usually very high volume but then
even though they trade 24 hours the
overnight session it's not as heavily
liquid as the morning session and cfds
usually have the same pattern so
although you might not see it because
the broker is basically showing you
whatever they like so if they want to
show you high liquidity they will show
you high liquidity but at the end of the
day it is based on that Futures Contract
so usually they match the same trading
hour same liquidity hours so in that
case I will award one point to Futures
and 1.2 cfds so the total is 10 points
for futures 5.4 cfds now I am biased
towards Futures and I prefer to trade
Futures in fact I don't trade cfds it's
not available here anyway but if you
live in Europe or Australia and you are
you know looking at which want to do I
definitely recommend trading Futures the
only part is if you don't have enough
money or if you don't want to learn how
to trade Futures those two obstacles
will basically shift you towards cfd
which is okay if you know that you're
gonna pay more
to trade strategies on cfds so it's all
about knowledge and in fact there is a
very good book by Robert Carver about
trading cfds in the UK otherwise you
should be trading Futures there are
million books and million videos online
about how to trade Futures and of course
my algae trading master class is about
trading Futures although you can apply
the knowledge on everything else but
mainly I push on trading Futures to
watch more videos like this click this
video and I will see you
[Music]
thank you
[Music]
