I did a video about a profitable
strategy that buys the stock indexes at
the end of each month usually before the
end of the month and selling a couple of
days after the beginning of the month is
a very profitable strategy and there are
some fundamental reasons why the
strategy Works about seven eight years
ago I heard of another pattern which is
buying the indexes when the moon is full
and the first time I heard of this I
thought some voodoo magic but of course
testing proves that this strategy does
work now I need to preface this that any
strategy that buys this stock index is
while mitigating risk usually will work
with some drawdown first thing we need
to take care of is the moon cycle is not
exactly like the monthly cycle and there
is a formula to calculate exactly when
the moon is full and I found this
website that has the calculation for
finding when the moon is full and you
can program that in fact I think he
provides the python code for it but
there is another easy way which is to
load all the dates of the full moon so
if you go to this site Kegel it's free
and if you search for full moon calendar
then you can download this data set
which basically just lists the date that
there is a full moon since 1900 all the
way to 2050. so once you download the
Excel sheet that has all the dates of
the full moon since 1900 you need to
convert those dates into something that
your platform understands now I'm
testing this using power language easy
language so I need to convert the dates
for something that easy language can
understand so you don't need to do this
I've done this already and you can
download the code in the community once
the strategy is compiled that's it the
code will buy every time there is a full
moon and then now you need to decide how
many days you will hold trade so
anything below 20 days is doable and of
course we will test that to see what is
the best stable area so here I have the
S P 500 represented by the ETF spy I'm
doing the ETF because we have more data
so here the data is since 1993 and
before I do the strategy I want to
compare it to the Buy and Hold strategy
the Buy and Hold strategy is not
available in every platform so you need
to build it and I build one here so let
me switch it on so this is Buy and Hold
and basically I'm buying and selling
every end of month so it's the same
place where I buy and sell and so that
way we can get the all the data so this
is the buy whole strategy is making 417
000 this is starting from fifty thousand
dollars uh in 1994 and the drawdown is
59 percent which is a hundred and thirty
eight thousand dollars now you might
wonder what is this Buy and Hold so this
is the representation of the Buy and
Hold curve unfortunately there is no
data in that graph still it's better
than nothing and you can see that my
strategy that I built matches that graph
exactly by buying and selling every end
of month so you can see they are both
the same the numbers are different but
they are exactly both the same thing and
we can see here since 1993
this is the 2000.com bubble the subprime
crisis and 2015 The Flash crashed 2018
and 2022 which we have the drawdown
recent drawdown and now we are in 2023.
anyway so this is the performance
basically we want to beat this uh
drawdown this is a big drawdown 59
percent
and if our strategy is not beating that
then we might as well do the Buy and
Hold okay so I added the strategy and so
the strategy has four variables the
shift which is the day before and after
the full moon so we are testing 10 days
before the full moon so we are buying 10
days before nine days and so on so forth
step of one all the way to five days
after the full moon and we are holding
this is our exit between 1 and 18 bars
remember there are 21 trading days and
you cannot use 21 because then the
strategy will behave like Buy and Hold
the stop loss and profit targets are
zero that means we are not using them we
will add them later on so let's test
this combination we have 288 let's
optimize so if we sort the results by
the net profit and I'm looking here at
the top 30 and remember this is an ETF
so I'm using the full account to buy the
maximum number of shares this is usually
the best way to test a strategy on
stocks and ETFs because
the price usually splits up and by the
time you test let's say 1995 the price
will be one dollars so you cannot test
with fixed number of shares so we can
see that the top 30 usually have a
negative shift in fact if I look at this
only number 30 is 5
and number 28 is zero which is buying
when the full moon is on and here we
have number 16 which is one that means
it's one day after the full moon
everything else is minus so that tells
me the buying before the full moon is
much better and we can see that the top
10 strategies are split between -5 and
-6 as for the holding bars the top 10 is
between 14 and 18. 14 is twice 16 is
twice and 17 is twice but going all the
way to number 30 they are all above nine
nine is the lowest number of bars so -6
and 14 is the top but it is sitting in a
very stable area so I have no problem of
picking this one and now we can see that
our graph is much better than the Buy
and Hold look at the Buy and Hold we
have these two deep drawdowns and then
this one in covid and here we mitigated
most of these and also we are making
more money plus less drawdown so all in
all we enhance our Buy and Hold by a lot
so it's it's very meaningful to do this
strategy because you are making lower
drawdown making more money and you are
less time in the market so the market
data that I'm using is 29 years and nine
months and I am in the market for only
21 years and nine months this is very
important to keep in mind that enhancing
the strategy is not always about net
profit although in this case we have
better net profit but usually is about
less risk so a better metric is the
return to draw down ratio and that's
usually what I use but of course there
are many other metrics that you can look
at the average trade the number of
Trades and so on so forth so now we will
test these stop loss and profit Target
now the way I program this is in 8 CRS
so we will put some form of ATR so zero
that means we're not using it and five
that means it's five times the 20-day
average true range so we will do it in
step of 0.5 that gives us 121
combinations now again sorting by net
profit the zero zero that means we are
not using it is the best one in terms of
net profit but in terms of return to
draw down ratio
five atrs so five time the average true
range of 20 days as a profit Target is
better than zero and here I have another
one which is three that's also better
and in terms of his top loss four and a
half ATR stop loss is good this is
Meaningful so two and a half profit
Target and four as a stop loss and you
can see uh how I say it's meaningful
because look at the return to drawdown
ratio it does have a big effect than the
rest because remember not using the stop
loss and profit Target return to the
order ratio was around four and here we
have 614 but of course we are making
less money but remember the original
strategy was making about four hundred
and eighty thousand so if I pick this
one I'm actually still beating the
original strategy and I'm making much
lower drawdown so this is the original
strategy and this is my cup and here
another huge concept that I put which
always in my videos which is strategy
filters strategy filters perform much
better job than stop loss or profit
Target now you can still use a stop loss
as a catastrophic stop loss so this stop
loss means that if your biggest loss is
10 000 you can put a stop loss as eleven
thousand so I put back the strategy as
-6 and 14. so the strategy is right now
making almost eight hundred thousand
dollars with 32 percent drawdown this is
based on fifty thousand dollars starting
capital and our trade analysis we are
making 365 trades on average two
thousand dollars per trade sixty six
percent win rate like I mentioned many
times on the channel the best filters to
use are usually Direction and volatility
this filter is part of my algo trading
Master Class it's available for strategy
Quant X easy language and power language
for tradestation multi-charge and
metatrader 4. both filters combined make
the market regime now what I'm showing
here is the version 2 of these filters
which will be included in my alga
trading Master Class version 2 coming
out very soon version 2 has three states
for volatility and three states for
Direction so this is on the top is the
direction which segments the market
either ball bear or sideways and the
bottom section shows the volatility
indicator which segments the market in
three sections quiet normal and volatile
so now by fixing the shift to -6 the
number of bars to exit to 14 and we will
not be using the stop loss and profit
Target we will only optimize the
direction volatility and like I said
these are three segments for each zero
means we are not using them and we will
keep zero so we have something to
compare so we have four states in each
that gives us 16 combinations we can
easily test them this is our Baseline
and our Baseline is 65 percent win rate
we can increase our win rate to 73
percent while using the three and three
that means bull market and the high
volatility and if I want to do the
custom Fitness we can increase the
maximum return to draw down ratio by
using this so this is the bull market
and not using the volatility filter and
still increasing the win rate now there
is another way to look at these filters
let's look at look at all these all of
them are making some money I I mean this
is 199 it's it's almost zero but only
this one is losing money so this is one
that means we are in Bear Market this is
one that means in quiet Market quiet
means the volatility is below average so
instead of using one and three and
combining them I'm just going to not be
trading when I am in this market regime
so here is our astrology with both the
volatility and Direction filters applied
which is we are not trading when the
market is quiet and bare and you can see
the quiet is this green
and bear Market is red so whenever we
have green here and red when they match
we don't take a trade we are now making
1.1 million still keeping our drawdown
at 33 so that is amazing our average
trade jumps to 3500 we increase our win
rate so all in all we enhance most
metrics and let's look at our periodical
returns so losing one year in 94 one
year 2001 year 2008 and one year in 2022
and remember this is our Buy and Hold
curve and now our curve looks much much
better and making a lot more money so
you see it filters almost always gives
better results than using profit Target
and stop loss now they don't do it all
the time but if you have enough variety
of filters you will achieve this goal
almost always and I am adding more and
more filters to my algo trading master
plan as version 2 I'm currently around
at 700 filters so the same strategy
buying six days before the full moon
selling 14 days later and not trading
when the market is quiet or when the
market is bare meaning moving down the
same strategy will work on all indexes
so this is currently the Spy so this is
the triple q and same strategy we are
not trading in Bear market and quiet and
we are buying six days before the full
moon and this is our strategy based on
fifty thousand dollars we're making one
million 252 trades 63 percent win rate
almost four thousand dollars on average
and this is our yearly returns and this
is the Dow Jones we're making 367
000 this is the Buy and Hold and this is
our curve our trade average is 1350 67
win rate so 172 trades and this is our
yearly return since 1998 and as you can
see the full moon has the same effect on
all indexes which is extremely weird
because if you check the dates of the
full moon they don't happen all the time
at the same point so the full moon will
shift from day one of the month all the
way to day 30 of the month during the
years so they don't fall always in the
exact same place to watch day of month
strategy watch this video and I will see
you there
thank you
[Music]
