would you like to trade a strategy that
has this Equity curve if you do stick
around then I will show you how I built
this strategy it's based on a single
Candlestick pattern the Candlestick
pattern that is used to build the
strategy is an extremely simple pattern
it's a rejection candle basically when
you have a candle with a long Wick
either to the downside or to the upside
this Candlestick has a body and an upper
Wick and a lower Wick so this is we call
the bottom work and this one is called
the body the body is between the open
and the clothes and then I have my
trusted pattern which is the internal
bar strength basically this measure
where the close happens inside the whole
range and the clever way to build the
strategy with this pattern is by
measuring the ratio of the wick to the
body because we know that this work can
be very long very short the body can be
at the top or at the bottom so by
combining the ratio of the wick to the
body and the IBS you get a really unique
pattern on top of that we will add the
number of patterns that happens in a
certain period of bars so in this case
we are looking at five bars and we will
add how many times this pattern happen
and only then we will take the signal
now of course this works on the long
side and the short side so on the long
side you are counting the bottom works
and comparing it to the body and the IBS
and on the short side you are counting
the upper Wicks and comparing it to the
body and IBS and since I'm testing this
on the S P 500 I will only test the long
side but of course the opposite applies
for the shot now the strategy code will
be available in the community and you
can download it for free here are the
inputs to optimize so the first one is
long so I'm testing the long side only
and this is the stop
so we're optimizing between one and four
that means I am taking either 180r all
the way to 480r as a stop loss and the
same as profit Target and then the buy
threshold is the number of patterns that
will happen in a certain period of time
now I fixed the period at 10 volts so in
this case it's either one all the way to
five and self-reshold I'm not doing it
because we're doing the buy side only
and then the IBS ratio and this would be
where the close happening IBS runs
between zero and one so we will optimize
between 0.2 and 0.9
and then the wick to add the ratio
so basically we are measuring how long
the work and dividing it by how long is
the body when the wick equals the body
we get one if the work it's double the
length of the body we get two so I'm
optimizing between 0.25 to 2 and a step
of 0.25 now all these combinations come
to almost 16 000 so let's optimize
and here are the result of the
optimization so let's filter The Sixteen
thousand we don't want anything below
one hundred dollars on the s p
and I don't want to trade anything that
produced less than one replace
so that's filtered the 16
000 down to five thousand so it's almost
33 percent of the strategies having more
than 100 trades and more than a hundred
dollars on average in fact we can sort
on the average trade
we can see we have 275 all the way to a
hundred and then if I sort by net profit
so this is the highest profit and I just
want to bring your attention why testing
is so important so let's look at the
wick body ratio when I was testing the
strategy and why had I thought the long
bricks compared to the body of the
Candlestick will produce the best result
because in theory that means the sellers
were trying to push the price down and
then the buyers came in and bought the
price and that's why you have the long
Wick but that's why testing is so
important because in testing I found
it's the opposite action so look at this
the top net profits is produced where
the work to body ratio is 0.5 that means
the length of the work is half the
length of the body and in fact I can
keep scrolling and you can see it's
0.5.25.75 and it's only above one when
we go all the way down and look at this
the lowest profit is when the wick is
almost twice as the body so this
solidifies the idea of testing all the
time doesn't matter where you hear about
the strategy or how you build it or
where do you read about it testing is
always the best way to know where the
strategy sits and you see here that the
top thousand strategies producing above
125
000 now of course we can look at the
stable areas and so on and so forth but
that's not of an interest to me let me
pick number 10 here
and this is the strategy let's see so we
have almost a thousand trades that is a
lot of trades on average we're making
two hundred dollars on average we are
sitting three bars in a trade strategy
making 190 27
000 drawdown so we're making seven to
one an annual period since 2006
we have a little bit of loss 2008 Less
in 2009 the biggest is 2011 and 2016.
and since 2018 we are on a roll and in
fact this year up to June which is when
I'm recording this video we had 28
trades and we made twenty two thousand
dollars 57 win percent now at this
implementation this top loss is 180r so
that's very close to hit which is okay
because we are doing a mere version
strategy and the profit Target is two
and a half atrs and you need to always
work that in so you need to pay
attention you don't want both of them to
be close because then you need to test
on intraday to find out if that strategy
is behaving properly if you're testing
on daily bars you need to keep them
further apart so they don't hit both at
the same time also the strategies that
we picked had three patterns happening
in 10 bars and the pattern is the wick
is half the body and the IBS is above
0.4 that means the close usually is high
so it's the uh I don't I don't have the
range so 0.4 and above around half the
range now I am using the RSI 2 above 65
to exit the trade RSI 2 is a really good
short-term exit strategy I know we have
stop loss and profit Target but usually
the RSI 2 is extremely fast so above 65
usually happens in a day and that's why
you saw that our average holding period
is three days the only thing I want to
add now is a filter to the strategy and
again since I'm using the also Irma as
well add the RSI so since this is a
mirror version strategy it makes sense
that the RSI should be low so I'll just
add a filter for the RSI below 50 and
let's see what that produce so this is
the original strategy we're making seven
to one 190 000 profits and twenty seven
thousand dollar drawdown
and our average trade is two hundred
dollars and if I add the RSI to below 50
and let's compile
and we can see that half the trades are
gone that's really a good filter also we
increased our percent profitable to 70
and we more than double the average
trade so this is huge enhancement to the
strategy on many metrics and if I want
to go back now to the performance that's
even like the icing on the cake now I'm
making also more money you'll have the
trades have the drawdown double the
average trade so I'm making more money
and now this gone to 11. and let's look
at our curve
and of course now the curve is smoother
we have a period of a non-performance
this is a 2015 all the way to almost
2019 so about four years where we didn't
do anything but you know the drawdown is
not that big because we enhanced the
drawdown now you might think that this
performance came from the RSI and not
the rejection candle pad so the only way
to figure that out is we need to remove
the candle pattern and test the RSI
alone and see what that produced so
going back to the strategy now I will
disable the Candlestick rejection
pattern so now basically we are going
along when the RSI below 50
and let's see what that produce
so it's still very good 142 but our
drawdown is 62 so return to draw down
ratio it's two so we went from 11 to 2.
also if I look at the trade analysis we
increase our number of Trades we reduce
our average we reduce our profitability
so definitely the RSI is not the driver
of the strategy in this case so that's
really encouraging to me that means the
filter is really a filter and it has a
huge effect on the strategy by enhancing
about six or seven metrics to learn more
about Candlestick patterns make to watch
this video and I will see you
[Music]
there
[Music]
foreign
