the secret to consistently build robust
strategies is exploiting patterns
patterns is one of the most powerful way
to build strategies because usually well
most of the time they are hidden and if
you find it and exploit it and you add
some filters then you'll have a unique
set of rules for your robust strategy in
this video I will reveal two patterns
they are the up and down thrusts now
usually I don't do these patterns on the
channel at least because usually they
involve something complicated in this
case these patterns although they are
very simple but they require finding a
pivot and pivots it's kind of tricky I
mean you can find it easily but in
programming you need to take care that
you avoid the look ahead bias so let's
draw a high pivot let's assume that we
have four bars and let me change the
color here okay so this is the pivot
high and as long as the pivot high as
long as this bar is higher than the bars
on the left and higher than the bars on
the right that's called a pivot high now
this
interpretation is open because you can
use the close higher than the previous
closes also you might require that each
high is higher than the previous height
in our case in this pattern we only
looking for the Center Bar this guy to
be higher than the bars on the left and
the bars on the right this means if I
move this bar here the pattern will
still be true because this high is
higher than all these highs now
currently this pivot has four bars to
the left and two on the right so the
right strength is two and the left left
strength is four so this pivot requires
four on the left two on the right and
that's why I say it's a little bit
tricky because only here you will know
that the pivot happened like you need to
wait for two bars after the pivot
happens then you will know that the
pivot happens and if the strength was
one then you will know over here and if
it's three then you will know over here
and so on so forth so when the program
shows this pivot happened you cannot act
next bar you need to act after the
second bar and this is what I mean by
the look ahead bias now most platforms
will behave properly meaning they will
issue the signal after the second bar
and when we have the right strength as
two bars but when you're back testing
you need to uh keep account of how many
bars when that happens so that's what
you need to take care of once you take
care of that then it's very easy so
we'll start with the up thrust pattern
so the up thrust pattern is for long and
the rules are as follows we wait for a
high pivot to happen and then we wait
for an open above the pivot and the same
bar close is lower than the previous two
and also the same bar close is in the
bottom of the range so let's show that
with an example so here is what I mean
by the upth thrust pattern so we are
looking for a pivot tie that has four
strength on the left two strength on the
right okay so this is the bar and then
after the second bar we need an open
above the pivot high so the Red Bar
means it's a down bar so that's the open
and this is the close so the open needs
to be above the pivit high and then the
close needs to be lower than the
previous two so this close is lower than
this and it's lower than this and also
the close of the same bar needs to be
below the 50% of the range so this close
below the 50% Mark once we have all
these conditions met then then we will
go along on the next bar our exit will
be when the RSI 2 above 80 or fixed 10
bars now this is a general exit it works
on any single pattern you trade for
short term so shortterm RSI 0 you should
get it within two three bars if it
doesn't happen you give it a little bit
more chance if it doesn't happen then
you exit after 10 bars now to optimize
this pattern we can change the number of
right strength from one to two and we
can change the left strength from one to
four or five and then we keep everything
else is the same so obviously if you
have one bar on the right one bar on the
left you will get more trades and if you
have more bars like four or five on the
left and two on the right you will get
less trades now one last thing to keep
an eye on is this bar doesn't have to be
the third bar on the right so when the
pivot happens you have a window of when
this bar will happen this is also
optimizable like let's say this is
happened now and then 20 bars later
without a new pivot you get this bar
then that's also valid like you can
decide what's the window size and here
we can visualize this on on a real chart
so this is the S&P 500 futures the daily
session the indicator at the bottom
showing two things the green bars are
pivots and the plus cross in yellow
these are the rest of the conditions so
remember we have high pivot that's the
green bar and then the open greater than
the pivot and the close lower than the
previous two closes and the closes in
the bottom of the range this is the
cross sign and so you see sometimes we
get a pivot but we don't get the other
conditions so again here is a pivot we
don't get the condition here we get a
pivot and we get the condition and
notice because the window here is more
than 20 bars so this condition applies
to this bar so this is the pivot and
then this condition here the open is
greater than this
pivot and the close is lower than the
previous two closes and the close is in
the bottom of the range then we get all
the conditions because remember the
right strength is two bar so in reality
this pivot happens we are still trading
every day every day and then this pivot
happens but this is bar one so this
didn't paint yet and then this is bar
two two didn't paint yet and only here
actually where this one will paint so
that's why what I told you in the
beginning you need to pay attention
because there is a look ahead bias when
you back test this kind of pattern now
of course that's the beauty of algot
trading because once you program it you
don't need to think about it it's all
happening based on your rules like there
is no uh room to interpret is this true
or is this false it's either true or
false and there is no ambiguity in the
explanation of the pattern so this is an
example of the strategy of four bar
strength on the left and two bar
strength on the right High pivot so this
is a pivot and at this
bar we have the open higher than the
pivot the close below the two the close
at the bottom we issue an order to buy
next bar next bar we buy we get this
pivot painted it's fixed 10 bar exit or
the RSI above 80 and then here same
thing so this pivot did not paint here
so then this bar the open is higher than
this pivot high and this bar the close
below the previous two closes also the
closes below the 50 range
and so we issue an order to buy an X bar
which happens here we exit with RSI 2 or
after 10 bars and so on so forth but you
can see we don't have trades all the
time but we're having them when we have
these cross now we can optimize this and
you can see the pivot left strength from
1 to five step one the right strength
from 1 to two step one and then the look
back period like how far we want to go
to look for a pivot we can uh optimize
this from 10 to 30 and then the window
so the window is once the pivot happens
how far can I go to look for the next
condition and I'm going to look from 3
to 21 in a step of two so all in all we
get 1100 combinations here are the
results sorted by return to draw down
and we can see that
42 shows at the top a lot so that seems
good but the look back period is 10 and
then the window is all over the place so
I think it doesn't make any difference
actually here the top five they don't
make any difference so from 11 all the
way to 21 they're all the same so I'm
going to pick like the middle so 4 2 10
and 15 so this is our strategy now 74
trades with 8 81% win rate with about
$690 and that is a great strategy for
the S&P 500 E mini Futures this is the
equity curve it's very smooth we have a
kind of big draw down here and then the
annual period analysis so far only 2019
is a loss I mean 2018 is a scratch but
overall very good performance the only
thing is the low number of Trades so 74
is definitely on the low side now the
down thrust is a short pattern so we are
waiting for a low pivot and basically
everything is the opposite so low pivot
open below the low and the close is
higher than the two previous closes in
the upper range and then we go short now
remember shorting on the S&P 500 is
difficult to find strategies with it and
even if you find it usually it's less
trades but let's see what we get so
first here are the r ruls we need a low
pivot the open below the pivot the close
higher than the previous two closes and
the close is in the top 50% of the range
now the exit you see here I put four
bars so the rsi2 is the opposite instead
of above 80 we will exit when it's below
20 because we are shorting but always
this is a good tip to keep in mind
always with short you need to exit
quickly because short in the end indexes
they don't last a long time so instead
of waiting 10 bars you always shoot for
three to five bars so I put four in the
middle and here is the strategy applied
so this is the low pivot and then this
open is below the pivot and it's the
close is higher than the previous two
closes and the close is in the top range
so we issue an order to short next trade
we will exit when the rsi2 hit below 20
or after four bars and let's see the
performance so we have 38 trades and
overall we are losing so let's optimize
and find something else and here are the
optimization results sorted by return to
draw down and you can see we are barely
making profitable strategies so these
guys have 22 trades 23 trades and if I
scroll down 18 trades 19 so I will pick
the same window and look back for the
long side so 1 one and 10 and 15 so only
22 trades at
870 on average so this is how the short
side look 22 trades about 60% win per
and
$870 and this is the equity curve of
course it's going up but I mean we don't
have enough trades but at least we can
combine it with the long side to see
what what we get okay so now we have the
two strategies combined now remember
some trades will overlap you see here
for example if the short order was
issued while we are long then the long
will be closed and we will enter short
and same of course on the opposite side
overall when we combine them we get 134
trades with an average of
615 and the equity curve now becomes
much much better than both of them in
fact we can see this because now our
return to draw down gets to over s so
the long side was below six the short
side was below six but combining them
now we are over seven because we are
adding the profits and reducing the draw
down which is the beauty of any
portfolio and this also can be
considered the portfolio long and short
of course if you watch many of my videos
then you know the S&P 500 is me
reverting instruments tend to drift up
most of the time which means it works
very well with all long strategies so
what about we think out of the box okay
what about we turn the short pattern
into another long pattern so they pivot
up close goes below we go long also they
pivot down and the close goes up and
then we also go long so that's two
different signals to go long so let's
see what we get so here is the low pivot
now used as a long signal so this is the
pivot and then the open happens now
instead of going short here we are going
long it's exactly the opposite so here
is the optimization result sorted by
return to draw down not a lot of Trades
because remember it's the same pattern
but now we have more strategies
profitable so we can pick this pattern
it's one two with a look back of 10 and
window of five so this one is making 67
trades and $35,000 with an average trade
of 531 so again that's really good this
is how the equity curve looks like so
now we have two patterns to go long and
one pattern to go short we can combine
all of them in a single strategy now
sometimes the long side because we have
two signals sometimes they overlap so we
need to allow the strategy to take two
orders if they overlap of course the
short side will always be a single one
and it will exit all longs to get short
so this is the combinations when there
is no overlap so we're only allowing one
long signals we get 168 trades with an
average of
547 so that's still really good and if
we allow the signal the strategy to take
two signals so allow two order entry
when the order is generated by a
different uh signal so this is how it
looks like and now we can see we have
181 trades still uh say having the same
average trade and now let's also add the
short side so overall now we have 22
short trades 185 long trades uh with a
total of 207 and our average trade is
great of course the short side is
amazing uh but our average trade is
still very very good with about 70% win
rate now our return to draw down of
course we are looking to enhance it
which is very good
6.58 and our Equity curve became much
smoother of course because we're adding
different signals at different times we
are not using position sizing like we
are not leveraging the same signal again
we are using different signal so that's
what makes uh this portfolio very good
and now our annual period returns looks
like this so 2015 is a scratch year 2018
is the losing year and then everything
else is very good in fact Last 5 Years
this been an amazing strategy although
keep in mind this strategy is not in the
market all the time look at this it's
only
18% of the time it's in the market since
the past 17 years even though we're
making really good return our capital
is not used all the time and it's
available to be used for other
strategies the power of portfolio of
strategies never underestimate that
short two different signals for long and
only with three strategies we have an
amazing portfolio on the same instrument
using the same code on one chart if you
like this video you will love the next
video
[Music]
