today we are diving into the world of
rules based trading this approach can
revolutionize how you trade making it
simpler more effective by setting clear
rules you create a consistent
disciplined approach I remember when I
was trading with what I thought was
rules but you know they were subjective
observations at best you know what I'm
talking about like you know Fibonacci
trend lines 3 to1 risk to ratio as
though if the market is listening to me
and so on and so forth it was always a
hit and miss and just like a casino The
Edge is not on your side so if you trade
enough times this approach will 100%
leads to unfortunately unnecessarily big
losses once I implemented rules that can
be written down on a piece of paper my
trading became more structured and my
results became more consistent
