in many of my previous videos I talk
about Market Edge where you need to
align the strategy style to the market
and one of the most prominent edges that
I talk about in this channel is the
tendency of the S&P 500 to drift up most
of the time now once you find that edge
in the market you're going to face a
problem which is most likely your
strategy just going to be lucky instead
of a driver behind it because if you
know the direction already then you're
just going to pick up anything and it
should be aligned and the strategy will
do well so how do you know if your
strategy is lucky or not now this is not
robustness testing this is just to get a
base of what's luck is in this market
and our strategy has to beat That Base
so this is the S&P 500 and like I
mentioned this Market tend to drift up
most of the time and although I teach a
different way to find out in my Alo
trading master class today I'll show you
a simple example of how this Market goes
up all the time and this is the random
strategy that I'm testing on the S&P 500
so basically the strategy will buy exit
after three bars wait for 12 bars and
buy again that's it it's always true so
we're always buying exiting after three
bars waiting for 12 bars and doing it
over and over so this strategy made 270
trades since 2007 60% win rate and $11
average trade no slippage no commission
so it's losing a strategy but it's not
losing by much since especially this is
extremely random now if I randomize this
so if we test from let's say 3 to
7 and The Waiting 5 to 15 in step of
three so I'll have 25
uh strategy combinations and let's look
at these results so if I sort by return
to draw down we can see that um well
even this is profitable so 23 strategies
out of 25 are
profitable and I just randomize the exit
so I'm always in the market I enter I
exit after a certain number of bars and
I weigh certain number of bars but all
of them almost all are profitable not
only that I have strategies like this
look at this 300 and plus trades average
trade of
$472 so that is like you know that's
already a strategy but how can that be
I'm I'm entering like I just find found
this pattern randomly so first this is
another proof over the one I did before
that the S&P 500 tends to drift up all
the time because if you you do anything
just go long regardless and you just
control the exit you are making money in
the market and you are making really
good money depending on how long you
wait and and how long you hold you can
really have a good strategy and no need
to worry about indicators or uh about
patterns there is nothing in this
strategy I'm just literally waiting and
buying waiting and buying so let's pick
the best strategy so this is the best
one five and eight and the randomness
that I'm going to do is every time I
reach an entry I will flip a coin if the
coin heads I will buy if the coin Tails
I will not buy and then wait for the
next signal flip a coin the coin heads I
buy if it stals I don't buy and then we
wait for the next signal and so on so
forth so I am still holding five bars
and waiting eight bars but every time I
wait I will flip a coin to see if I
enter again or not before we test I took
a screenshot of this so we can compare
what's going to happen next so as you
can see five and8 is the top uh
performers making
$145,000 308 trades $472 on average so
now I introduce this percent so if I put
this at 50 that means it's a coin flip
basically 50/50 so you see now every
time I compile my strategy we will get a
different results here so this is$
288
$261 on average and if I compile
again 287 $328 on average and
again 287 and so on so forth so you see
we having a flip so now I'm going to do
this same one so we will do 25
combinations but now we will have the
coin flip for every trade so let me show
you what happened so again this is
sorted by return to draw down and we can
see let me bring this and look at the
difference now so the top one was 58
this is
38 and the top one was making 145 this
is making
102 and if I do it again
and sort while return to draw
down again the top one is 515 making 122
it's not the same so you see it's random
I'm just trying to prove to you of
course I know because I coded the
strategy but just to prove to you that
this is using a coin flip and every time
I run it it will bring new results so
now that I have the basis to do a random
Str strategy I need a big sample and I'm
going to look for about 50,000 strategy
so I can get the average of that to find
out where the luck sits in this
instrument to get a bigger sample I will
randomize the weight bars 5 to 15 step
three and the exit Bars 3 to 7 step of
one and the random percent this is the
coin flip I will do it from 50 to 70
step five well 50 50 is half and half
and 70 that will yield more trades than
not so when I reach a trade and flip a
coin it will land ahead 70% of the time
instead of 50/50 that's what 70 means so
basically we are giving it more trades
than normal and then I have some clever
code to increase the number of coin
flips because right now with this we
have 125 combinations and I want a
bigger sample so this will multiply that
so if we do like let me show you if I do
100 you can see now I have
12,000 so if I do
400 that should give me about 50,000 uh
combinations which is what I want so
these are the results that I got it's
about 50,000 strategies you see this is
the count and these are the filtered
strategies so overall I I'm about 28% in
the
market and my return to draw down is
1.6 and my average trade is
$248 Win percent is about
60 1.3 profit factor and about 250
trades now I filtered the really good
strategies and you can see they are
about
20% of the total but uh interestingly
it's about the same number of Trades
double the uh return to draw down and
about double the average trade but same
exposure and about same uh profit Factor
so what do we get out of this basically
we get the base strategy for the S&P
500 so your strategy in the S&P 500 it
needs to be at least these numbers
in order not to be just block I think
that is the minimum that you should uh
accept on the S&P 500 of course this
will be tied uh to the exposure so lower
exposure that means this number is lower
because the S&P 500 tends to drift up
most of the time this test shows that
your strategy has to pass a certain
level to be be accepted profitable alone
is not enough here now this can be
applied to all markets once you find the
market Edge you can do random strategies
like this going with the market
Direction and then you can find the base
for that market and then your strategy
has to pass that threshold to be
[Music]
accepted
[Music]
