Larry Williams is one of the great
short-term traders of Our Generation he
is still trading he's very successful
and he wrote many books about the
subject I featured many of his Drive
his trademark based on his very
successful book long-term secrets to
short-term trading in today's video I
will add another strategy from his book
that is based on his indicator that's
called will spread to give a signal when
to enter a market based on a related
Mark so for example let's take the S P
500 and bond these two markets are
interrelated and they affect each other
so we'll spread take the ratio between
these two markets movements and give a
signal for entry and exit so here I have
the S P 500 represented by the Spy ETF
and the long-term treasury is
represented by the TLT ETF so if we
divide the close of the S P 500 by the
close of TLT we will get this spread
then we build two exponential moving
averages on this spread one is fast and
one is low and if we deduct the fast
expression moving average
from this low exponential moving average
then we will get this oscillator the
oscillator will hover above and below
zero when it is above zero that means
the main instrument is performing better
than the related instrument now once we
have this oscillator it's just like a
macd then we can add a signal and an
average of that signal and we can take
the cross of that signal and so on and
so forth you can watch my macd video to
build strategies using this indicator
but in this video I will use the pure
wool spread indicator to take the signal
so we do that by simply going long on
the S P 500 whenever this spread is
above zero so for example let's take the
cross from red to Green here you can see
that now the S P 500 is moving up while
the TLT is moving down and that's why we
have the green oscillator going up also
no notice that when the S P 500 is doing
nothing or moving down slowly while the
TLT moving down quickly we also see the
green moving up and that's when I say
it's relative so we are just measuring
the performance of these two instruments
if the performance of the S P 500 is
better than the performance of TLT then
the oscillator will move up and of
course the opposite is true so now let's
test this strategy that we will go along
the S P 500 whenever we switch to Green
now since I am applying the strategy to
ETFs the position sizing is working by
using the full account
so I'm using the maximum amount that I
can purchase at any moment in time
and if we check the performance we are
making 1500 but that's of course not
good we have 117 trades on average
making 13 so this is purely by using the
crossover from negative to positive and
exiting after five number of bars now
I'm gonna keep this open and I am just
going to switch another exit which is if
the RSI 2 above 65 this is a very robust
exit I use it a lot in my short-term
strategies and I will compile now with
that exit combined with the five bars
exit
so now we have a little bit more trades
so 125 but our average Wing goes to
thirty dollars which is still not good
but let's say a little bit but uh than
the other exit okay so now I'm gonna run
an optimization to see the best numbers
that we can get so remember we have the
fast exponential moving average is five
I will set it between three and ten the
slow is 20 and I will set it between 12
and 30. the number of bars to exit
between 2 and 15 and I will switch on
the stop loss one and three profit
Target one and three instead of 0.5
remember the stop loss and profit Target
are a multiplier of the average true
range so that should give us about 53
000 combinations and let's run and see
the results and sorting by the return to
draw down ratio this is the best result
which is
10 and 27 that's the fast exponential
moving average and the slow exponential
moving average so profit Target is 180r
and stop loss is two and a half ATR so
that means we are hitting the profit
Target a lot more than we're hitting the
stop loss so let me double click on this
to get these values and let's see the
equity curve so we have 70 trades making
500 average so this is a huge
Improvement to the strategy and the
curve is really good and we can see the
drawdown in dollars is about ten
thousand dollars here but of course this
is the best result and most likely it is
an overfit and I wouldn't bother even
with trying to find a suitable range
because even with the best performing
numbers I don't like the strategy for
now and that is very important to keep
in mind you don't have to accept any
strategy just because it works you need
to pick the best strategies and as algo
Traders we have the luxury today to pick
the best strategy because you can
develop thousands of strategies easily
with optimization or with data mining
packages and so we don't need to stick
around with any social mediocre strategy
now probably you have figured out that
this can be also switched to pair
trading because at the end of the day we
are measuring the relative performance
between two instruments so how about
applying this to pair trading which is
bringing two companies that they are in
the same market and buying the best
performing one so now the same strategy
is applied to Pepsi and Coca-Cola so
Pepsi and Coca-Cola of course are in the
same industry in the same group and here
on the top is Pepsi at the bottom is
Coca-Cola so when with the oscillator is
green that means Pepsi is performing
better than Coke
and when it is red that means Coke is
performing better than Pepsi and we do
the same we have we buy when it switches
to green and we have our profit targets
stop loss and number of bots so in this
case the first exponential moving
average is eight periods the slow
explanation moving average is 12 periods
three bars to exit two and a half at
hours for stop loss one ATR for profit
Target and if we check this strategy the
strategy is performing well with about
ten thousand dollars in drawdown but the
performance is now sixty two thousand
dollars and if we check the total trade
analysis about 137 trades with 450
dollars on average and if we look at the
annual period analysis since 2007 we
have one down here which is 2012 and
currently this year is also down with
five trades now of course you might say
this is an overfit but if we look at all
the uh optimization numbers if I sort by
custom Fitness and I keep going down I'm
trying to find two to one
so up to here so that's about 1700
strategies that has two to one return to
draw down ratio so this is really good I
mean you can find easily many
combinations that will work I mentioned
in the beginning that this oscillator
can be just like the macd where you can
build a signal and an average of the
signal and then you can the cross of two
of those signals above zero below zero
and so on and so forth but also you can
make this oscillator as a filter for
other signals so to illustrate this
concept here I have the S P 500 with TLT
and now I am buying every Monday and
exiting the same way either number of
bars the plus and profit Target so I'm
using for wool spread the three
exponential moving average as fast and
12 exponential moving average are slow
exiting after six bars two and a half
ATR as top plus and 380r as the profit
Target remember I'm not using will
spread to enter I am buying every Monday
so the strategy is 700 trades making 560
dollars on average and we can see the
curve so the curve is very good and now
I'm going to use the oscillator the will
spread oscillator as a filter
so instead of buying every Monday I will
only buy every Monday if will spread is
negative that means the performance of
the S P 500 relative to TLT is low so
let me add the condition and I will
compile
so now we have less than half the
original trades but look at our average
trade it went from about 550 to more
than double
so that is a huge huge Improvement if we
go back here we can see that now we're
making 358
000 and the curve looks much better now
remember before it used to be like this
and then a hockey stick at the end now
it's a little bit smoother going up so
as a filter this also worked really
really well to watch more of Larry
Williams strategies watch this video and
I will see you there
thank you
[Music]
