would you like a strategy with an equity
curve that looks like this and would you
believe it if I tell you that this
strategy is based on a single line of
code with zero optimization let me start
from the beginning I am a big believer
that each market has its own
characteristics and in this I differ
with many of my peers and even some of
my mentors but I do this for a reason
because you see most strategies that
came from hedge funds usually they tend
to be long term because hedge funds move
a lot of capital in and out and they
need long-term strategy and very
short-term strategies are restricted to
high frequency trading firms which we
cannot compete in so we sit in a very
short term trading strategies that
trades like hours to few days and in
this short term the market
characteristics is totally different
between each market and you cannot force
a strategy that works very good on
Market eggs and you expect it to work
very good on Market why so from that
perspective I totally believe that you
should develop long side alone short
side alone for each market separately
and one of the first tools that I use in
my research is day of week now this is
not new Larry Williams made this very
popular in his book 20 years ago but
this concept is still very important
till today and that alone is worth the
price of admission as they say I have in
this chart natural gas futures
and each bar is a monthly bar and you
can see we've been drifting down since
the peak in 2005. now we had a huge bull
run here this is 2007 until the crash in
2008 a small Bull Run remember these are
months in 2014 and we did so again in
2021 and we did the huge run in 2022 but
mostly we are drifting down so of course
this Market has a tendency to go down
and you need to apply short-term
strategies to make the best of the
natural gas market so just like I advise
always to go along on the S P 500
because it usually tends to drift up
even when it has big drawdowns the same
goes for natural gas it tends to drift
down of course it will have some bull
moves but overall you'll make more money
with high wind rate by shorting the
natural gas so here is the daily bar of
natural gas since 2005 and I am shorting
every day
and exiting end of day and you can see
that strategy performs really really
well with almost four hundred thousand
dollars in winnings eight to one win to
draw down ratio and if we look at the
analysis of Trades we have about 4 400
trades an average of 88 dollars that's
not big and almost 52 percent win rate
so if we try to isolate which days works
better let's do an optimization here I
have four variables let's leave the last
two for later let's focus on the first
two so end of day close this we will
optimize between zero and one so zero
it's exit end of day one is exit next
day that means we are holding overnight
and day of week is zero that means all
day so we have some reference to compare
to and then of course days of the week
one to five which is Monday through
Friday
so 12 combinations in total and this is
what we have so if we pick all days
exiting end of day so this is zero zero
this is what we have 393 thousand 4400
trades 88 average per trade and 7.8
return to draw down ratio and the next
best one is this one and we make less
money by holding overnight so this one
is four hundred thousand this one is
almost 300 000. first of all we know
that holding overnight we we don't get
any advantage in fact if anything we're
getting a disadvantage because we're
holding more risk overnight but if we
look at the days so this is Monday
Tuesday Wednesday Thursday Friday
we can immediately notice that
three which is Wednesday
that means we are buying Thursdays and
exiting end of day
because if this is Wednesday then we
will buy the next day which is Thursday
and look at this the average trade is
260. and if we hold overnight so this is
the next one the average trade is 242.
now this is not a fluke and it's not by
chance that Thursdays is the best day to
Short The Natural Gas
there must be a fundamental reason now I
don't know this but if we check all the
trades we will see that this is not a
fluke like it happened since 2005. we
had the crash in 2008 and
2014 and covid and uh High interest rate
low interest rate and so we can see that
this is not a fluke there is something
fundamental in this market that makes it
better suited to shorted on Thursday and
also you will notice that shorting
Fridays is the next best thing because
this is Thursday that means we are
shorting Fridays so if we short Friday
and exit end of day the average trade is
105 and if we short Friday exit next day
that means we're holding over the
weekend our average trade is even better
at one three seven
137 that's almost 30 percent more
so that's definitely worth it and of
course we can see that in the profit so
this is 123 000 and this is 94 000. so
let me double click we will pick that
and now we are shorting every Thursday
exiting end of day
and this is what it looks like
performance 239 1251
and return to draw down ratio trade
analysis uh we have 260 dollars average
trade that's very good and if we look at
the curve it's beautiful and look at the
drawdown we can barely see it of course
we should see it clearly
it's about twenty thousand dollars this
is in 21 but now to check if this is a
fluke or not let's look at the
periodical analysis and let's look at
the annual period
so since 2005 we have only two years
down and they are not that big
I mean look at this 2500 and this is a
scratch this could easily be up but one
number will jump which is 2008.
because you can see all the trades are
around 50. but we can see the maximum
here is 22 and the average is about 10.
but then 2008 is 54. and 2006 is 41. so
if 2008 let's take an outline yes
because you can see even the average
trade is a thousand dollars
well uh well everywhere it's about 200
now we need to make sure that this High
number here does not skew our average
trade in total so let me get rid of 2008
and I will even get rid of 2006. okay so
I put the filter for two years and let's
compile and you can see now 2008 and six
they are gone
and first let's check the average trade
so our average trade went to down to 181
that's still very good so we know that
is not a fluke and we can check the
curve is even looks better to me now
because I think it's a lot smoother
before we had a huge jump in 2008 and
2016. and now you can see this flat
curve this is 2006 and 2008. and total
performance we are making 147 000 71
return to Total ratio now like all
strategies they consist of Entry exit
and a filter and the best filters are
usually Direction and volatility and in
my algo trading master class I have my
own proprietary Direction filter and
volatility filter so let's add those to
the strategy and let's see if we can
enhance this extremely simple strategy
and make it better so first indicator
here I have the market Direction which
consists of ball bear and sideways and
the second indicator here is Market
volatility which is quiet normal and
volatile so each one has three stages so
let's switch off this and let's optimize
for volatility so from zero to three so
zero that means we're not using it that
will be the reference point and three
which is the number of regimes in the
volatility anyway so this is our
reference point and let's look at our
average trade so our average trade was
181
and look at this 319 it's 138 trades
compared to age 16. that's already a lot
of savings were out of the market but
our average is almost double and our
drawdown is less than half
so it's like it's a huge Improvement by
simply adding volatility and this
volatility is in the middle that means
it's the normal voltage it's not quite
it's not extreme it's just the normal
volatility of this market now I might
say this is low now we're reducing our
profit but that can easily be mitigated
by trading more contracts in this if I
want to bring my drawdown to 19 I can
easily make two and a half
my drawdown so that means I can trade
two and a half contracts also you can
trade this one so this is 262 so you can
trade both these
and skip this Market regime so both
these will give you 450 trades
and it will give you a hundred and
twenty seven thousand with lower
drawdown so still significantly better
than the normal one and now let's try
the other filter which is Direction so
if we go to direction again zero is the
reference point
and one two three is both sideways and
bear Market
so this is our original
and again here we see a significant
Improvement look at this
so this is the bull market
and remember the natural gas has a
tendency to go down and it has short
pole movements
and in those movements when it's going
up you short on Thursdays and you get
double the average rate and again you
reduce your drawdown and if you want to
combine it with the other one this is
179 the average trade so almost like the
original and that will be the bear
market so the sideways the sideways
Market is the worst one
and of course you can see this if I
double click you can see that uh so this
is Direction and in bull market so this
is the bull market we trade only these
times
to go further again we'll mark it to a
trade
here we don't trade so you can see we
are out of the market a long time
we're only trading at full market now of
course you can combine these strategies
together and they are not 100 correlated
so here for example I put a natural gas
and this one we're still shorting
Thursdays only
but this one using Direction and this
one using volatility as a filter
and if we back test them both you can
see now we are making a 123 000 instead
of the 140 and our average rate now
jumps to 277 so that's very good and our
periodical analysis still looks very
good remember I still removed 2006 and
eight
and if I put them back on they will be a
much better but let's keep them off for
now
because I just want to show you the
correlation
so if we take the daily correlation you
can see there are 0.56 correlated
so that is like somewhere in the middle
but it's not like 90 correlated
so even though it's the same strategy
shorting on Thursdays but the volatility
filter does not always overlap with the
direction filter
and that's what makes these two
indicators really really work well
together and just to show you if I
remove the filters for 2008-2006 we will
get a much better strategy so still the
correlation is 0.56 but now of course
we're making more money and this is our
curve we're still making about 200 000
with a maximum drawdown of about twenty
thousand dollars that happens lately so
simple research tools yield beautiful
strategies if you know the workflow and
know what to do to learn more watch this
video and I will see you there
[Music]
thank you
[Music]
