most Trader who use Ballinger bands
struggle to break even today we are
diving deep into this indicator and
precisely we are going to use a
derivative called percent b a tool that
can transform your strategy from good to
phenomenal so stick around and I will
teach you how to build a portfolio of
robust strategies using percent B
indicator so first let's get to know
what percent B actually is percent B
tells you where the current price s in
relation to the Ballinger bands so here
I have the chart of the S&P 500 Index
with the Ballinger bands plotted on top
of the price so this is the top
Ballinger band and this is the bottom
Ballinger band now the Ballinger band
uses a moving average which is this line
and adds a standard deviation to the top
and deduct a standard deviation to get
the bottom Channel usually the moving
average is 20 period and the standard
deviation is two to use Ballinger bands
for breakout you usually go long when
the price breaks above the uh upper
Channel and you go short when the price
breaks below the lower Channel now since
we are trading the S&P 500 Index and I
mentioned this in many of my other
videos the S&P 500 Index tends to drift
up most of the time and also it works
really well with miror reversion so in
that case we need to use the Ballinger
bands in a different way which is we are
going to use it to go long when the
price breaks below the lower Channel now
I mentioned this in almost all my videos
it is very important to reiterate which
is you need to match the strategy style
to the instrument characteristics this
is what I teach in my alot trading
master class because it makes a lot of
sense also it let you reach a robust
strategy development much much faster in
this case we are trading the S&P 500
Index which tends to go up most of the
time also it works much better with Mir
verion style than with breakout style so
using the Ballinger band to trade A Mir
version strategy long on the S&P 500
Index will yield much better strategy
than normal now that doesn't mean you
cannot build a short strategy or a
breakout strategy on the S&P 500 it's
just this methodology works much faster
and produce much more robust strategies
than other methodologies now that we
know how we are going to trade let me
explain percent B so instead of taking
the close below the channel to go long
we are going to use percent V so percent
V like I mentioned calculate where the
price sits in the channel so in this
case I have the 20-day moving average
with two standard deviation same thing
this is percent B indic indicator and
you see how it measure the close in
relation to the channel so it start from
zero so this is zero and this is one
when the price goes above the channel
like this one we see the price go above
number one and when the price go below
the channel like in here and in here you
see the price is below zero here and
here now the advantage here is I can be
very precise so instead of saying when
the close is above the channel I can say
when the percent B is greater than 1.1
or greater than 1.2 or greater than 1.3
same thing below the channel I can say
percent B is smaller than zero or
smaller than .1 or smaller than minus 2
and the difference here is minus point2
is somewhere maybe around here but .1 is
just above the lower Channel and if
you're using the close it's very hard to
determine that but with percent B we can
easily do this optimization so here's
our first test we will enter when the
close is below the lower Ballinger bands
of 20 bar moving average and two
standard deviation now because we are
using percent B so the entry is going to
be like this this is saying the same
thing percent B of 20day and two
standard deviation when it's lower than
zero that means the price is lower than
zero so that's our entry condition and
we will exit when the close is greater
or higher than the previous high now
that's not necessarily means that we are
profitable because we could be going
down down down and then the close will
be higher than the previous high so it's
just a a faster way to exit when you are
profitable so here is an example of our
trade when the close below Ballinger
bands which we are measuring using the
percent B indicator so you see when it
goes below zero we enter and we exit
when the close above the previous high
so this is the close above the previous
High We exit we are entering on the same
bar exiting on the same bar and here we
have another trade so again here the
close is below lower Binger B but we are
using percent B so percent B below zero
we enter same bar and then we wait when
the close above the previous high and
that's why I told you it's not
necessarily going to be profitable for
example here so we have uh a losing
trade but it happens here we exit when
the close is higher than the previous
high and this is the result of the
strategy we are making six 6 to1 Return
to draw down ratio 114,000 in
total and this is the how the curve
looks like very good trade analysis 110
trades 76% win rate and above $11,000 on
average this is already an amazing
strategy let's look at the periodical
return again it's very very well and
notice that I'm doing this in the end of
March in 2024 but we don't have any
trades in 202 24 and of course we can
see this clearly so this is the chart
and we see we since November
20123 we never dipped below the lower
channel of the Ballinger band and this
value comes from the values in the
Ballinger band settings because we are
looking at 20-day moving average and two
standard deviation we will have fewer
trades we can easily increase the number
of Trades by either reducing the
standard deviation or reducing the
moving average or both so we need to
test to figure out also remember now we
are using percent B below zero we can
use percent B below 3 so that's why
we're using percent B because we can do
these optimization and here are the
results of the optimization of percent B
from Min
-.3 2.3 that means we have three values
below 0 0 and then three values above
zero and that's the advantage of using
percent B to trade instead of the
Ballinger band itself because we can be
very precise on where the price sits in
relation to the channel and obviously
you can see the further away from zero
below zero I mean we get fewer trades
and the further in the channel we get
more trades so this is our original
strategy at 110 and you see3 making more
than double the number of Trades now
that doesn't translate to more profits
because you will have more losers than
winners and you can see the win rate
drops from 76 to 72 also our maximum
draw down uh goes uh fromus 19,000 to
minus almost
$31,000 now I'll do another optimization
by changing also the moving average and
the standard deviation so now we have an
optimization for the percent B which is
again from Min -.3 to3 but also I
optimize the moving average of the
Ballinger bands and the standard
deviation so the moving average from 5
to 20 and the standard deviation from 1
to 2 and A2 and now you see that even
with minus point2 we have above 300
trades because now we shorten the length
of the moving average and we reduce the
standard deviation which gives us many
more opportunities to have a trade and
let me show you how this looks like here
so if I change this to five and
one you see now when the channel is
small obviously we will have a lot more
opportunities and look at this is 2024
before we didn't have any trades and now
we have many trades because it's easier
to break the channel when it is a
smaller width now I prefer this way than
the starting strategy because here we
have more trades it's a lot easier to
judge if the strategy is robust or not
you can always go back to the original
strategy but let's keep the number of
Trades high and let's introduce A New
Concept so the New Concept is instead of
applying one level which is let's say
percent B smaller than point 2 minus
Point that's a fixed level now we will
say if percent
b lower than
-24 two
times so that means the price here has
to stay below 2 two bars in order for
our signal to be true we can also Define
this it doesn't have to be consecutive
two bar bars we can say look in the past
number of bars to see if it is true so
that means I can look in the past four
bars and let me know if two of them are
below minus point2 and we do this with
the if statement and this is how the
statement looks we are using count if
percent b lower than Min
-.2 in the past four bars two times so
if percent b lower than Min
-.2 twice in the last four
bars that mean the entry condition is
true and we will enter in a position
same thing as always we will exit when
the close is higher than the previous
high so here is an example of this trade
so you can see this is percent P now and
this is now adjusted for five bars
moving average and one standard
deviation just like the Ballinger bands
channel so now we are counting in the
past four bars if two bars are below 02
and so we can see here the percent B is
min -46 and then the next bar percent B
is
-36 so now I have two bars below Min
-.2 in the past four bars so we enter
the trade and we exit when the close is
higher than than the previous High here
is another example percent B is min
-23 and here is
-28 so we enter and again we exit when
the close is higher than the previous
high so this is a strategy performance
we are making
$123,000 6.2 return to draw down ratio
we are 12.6 only in the market so if you
annualize this this is a huge return on
the investment and 16 three trades so
we're slightly ahead uh last strategy
was 110 trades and we are making
755 on average for annual period
analysis we have no losing year now of
course I can easily increase the number
of Trades by making this condition true
but now we can increase the percent B so
instead of minus we can use a positive
number we will count if percent b lower
than three that means we are slightly
above the lower Channel and we will
count in the last three bars if two of
them are below. 3 and again the exit is
the same close above the high and as you
can see I have almost double the number
of Trades of course that comes with the
price of reducing the average trade and
finally the annual period analysis looks
like this and this is our curve so now
you can easily tell why 5% B is much
much better than the Ballinger band
indicator although it's a derivative of
it but because of the precise price in
relation to the channel we can easily
Define different strategies and we can
easily find better strategies other than
the binary below the channel or above
the channel and also by reducing the
standard deviation and the moving
average of the Ballinger bands we can
increase the number of Trades to reach a
statistical number
that makes judging the strategy a lot
easier now comes the part of building a
portfolio so instead of building a
portfolio of a different values of the
parameters that we have once you fix
your strategy now the better way to
build a portfolio is through filters so
we can combine the strategy with
different filters usually uh Direction
and volatility and but you can pick any
type of filters
and you can build a portfolio of the
same strategy but now their profile will
be much different because of the filter
you apply and let me show you so in
portfolio Builder I loaded five
strategies they are the same strategy
applied to the same instrument so this
is the S&P 500 futures daily sessions
this is the same strategy is the percent
B we are using these values count if
percent B below three three in the last
three bars it's true for two bars and
exit when the close is above the high
that's it so it's the same strategy I'm
only going to change different filters
now I already picked the filters because
I have now more than 700 filters it will
take really really long time to show all
the filters but what I picked is not the
best filters instead I picked filters
that behave differently so for example
volume
Direction indicator time and so on so
forth in order to get less correlations
and with these five strategies let me
back test and show you so first of all
this is the total which is
$786,000 and now our return to draw down
is 10.2 remember it was 6.5 in previous
single strategy and now because these
are uncorrelated we are getting better
return to draw down ratio and now we
have 1,300 trades obviously this is a
much better sample than the first
strategy we did which was a 100 trades
we have very good average trade about
$600 and an excellent 76% win rate this
is how the curves looks like and this is
the annual period analysis and now we
have nine trades in 2024 100% win right
I always laugh at these because you know
they're aan using when you are winning
all the time and so far this year with
nine trades we made uh
$31,000 but here is the kicker part so
this is breakdown of the strategies only
five strategies as you can see they are
not the best I mean I have many
strategies that made2 200 and above ,000
so but for example this is 112 153 53
and so on you can see different trades
and I picked these because of the
correlation and here you can see why so
if I pick weekly correlation look at
this the correlation
28.4 5.5 this is the highest correlation
here is 0.92 so this means what this
means strategy number four and strategy
number five they are highly correlated
but even then they're not completely the
same we have also here High correlation
this is strategy three and strategy 4
but overall low correlation and this
shows up of course here in my return to
draw down profile that's why I have
higher return to draw down ratio the
takeaway here you should start from
matching the strategy style to the
instrument this is Paramount because it
will be very easy for you to find robust
profitable trading strategies and that's
what I emphases on in my Alo trading
Master Class also filters are much much
better better solution than optimizing
the parameters of your indicator to
learn more about Ballinger bands watch
this video and I will see you
[Music]
there
