one of the great Traders and researchers
for the past two decades is Larry
Connors I consider him by admire even
though he doesn't know my name but he is
really really good and he is of course
the one who pioneered RSI 2 which of
course you know how much I love that
strategy back in 2009 after the 2008
crisis he published a book about trading
ETFs and one of those strategies is
called the R3 now I love these books
because we already have more than a
decade of out of sample so it is really
an enjoyment for me to code these
strategies and see how they perform for
the past decade the strategy is
extremely simple and here are the rules
rule number one is that the close has to
be above the 200-day moving average the
200-day moving average works very well
with the RSI 2. the second rule is the
RSI 2 has to be below 10 today because
we are looking for a pullback at the
mirror version strategy so we are
looking for an extreme pullback so below
10 that is Extreme Rule number three the
RSI 2 three bars ago has to be below 60
because we don't want a pullback from
let's say RSI below 15 and then it goes
below 12 and then below 10 that means we
are doing nothing at the bottom and
finally Rule Number Four The RSI 2 has
to drop three bars in a row and that is
it that means we are looking for a
powerful pullback that's happening three
days in a row so usually this is some
kind of Panic or huge selling and then
you want to pick up that instrument and
go along our exit will also use the RSI
so we will exit when the RSI to above
75. now the book didn't mention anything
about a stop loss and of course if you
leave this without stop loss sometimes
yes I will know at some point it will go
above 75 but you will face maybe I don't
know 90 drawdown so of course that
doesn't work practically so I use the
clothes below the average of 50 bars
anywhere between 30 and 50 will work as
a stop loss of course you can add a
dollar figure an ATR but since I'm
implementing this on a portfolio of ETFs
I thought the moving average will work
the best so here is the strategy applied
to the S P 500 and if we pull the stats
the strategy made twenty eight thousand
dollars with maximum drawdown of about 8
000 so we are making four to one return
to draw down ratio now remember this is
shares and that's why you might find the
number is low also we don't have a lot
of Trades only 72 trades 54 win rate and
we are making about 400 on F and here is
the fun part remember this strategy was
published here 2009 so 2010 and above
these are all out of sample nothing
changes this is exactly the rules from
the book and here's the equity curve we
have they draw down here so remember
this is the out of sample so anything
above here is the out of sample and we
can see the curve is beautifully moving
up with the draw down is lower and lower
that is amazing to me that a strategy
published in 2009 we had 2015 crash we
had the covet crisis and the strategy
performs beautifully on the S P 500 as
it was designed in 2009. now of course
as algo Traders we can expand This
research and optimize any value we like
but I didn't want to go that route I
only want more trades so more trades
means less restrictions and since we
cannot play with the RSI too I mean the
RSI 2 is fixed at two I don't want to do
three and four and five and so on so the
only way to get more trades in I need to
decrease the amount of RSI below the
previous RSI so instead of looking for
three RSI down in it all I'm going to
look for two hours I down in a row and
not only that I'm going to expand the
number of look back to 5 instead of
three so now this should let more trades
in also asking for the RSI to be below
63 bars ago I removed that so that also
should add more trades in okay so going
back to the strategy
so let's compile our new restrictions
so enhance our net profit and if we look
at number of Trades now we have 225
trades making 290 on average and let's
look at the our Equity curve our Equity
curve is not as smooth as before but
still it looks very very nice and if I
want to go to the periodical analysis
now we have more losses here but overall
we are making more money now that's not
necessarily a better Equity curve or
better periodical returns but I'm only
looking to increase the number of Trades
that was my primary target and that we
did while getting more money so I am
happy with the result this is important
concept to keep in mind because filters
or enhancement doesn't have to be always
the net profit you might be looking as
in this case only to increase the number
of Trades and if we increase the number
of Trades while keeping the strategy
intact then that's done that's that's
the Target of this filter whatever you
are doing sometimes the filter is only
to reduce drawdown sometimes to increase
the average rate and of course if it
does all of them then all the better so
now we will apply the same strategy to a
portfolio of ETFs I have 25 ETFs here
they represent countries sectors and of
course indexes Commodities bonds and so
on so forth I'm testing this strategy
since 2006 and remember the strategy was
published in 2009 and we just relaxed
the rules to get more trades in and this
is the result we get we have more than 4
000 trades so that's really good that
increase our confidence percent
profitable is about 50 and on average
we're making 172 dollars per trade so if
we go to the equity curve there's a huge
drop here and let's look at that period
so this is between 2018
all the way to May 2021. annual period
analysis
we did a really bad year in 2022 but now
we are getting back we already did 20
000 so that's almost 25 percent back in
the first six months remember the
strategy published in 2009 so all this
is out of sample and if we go to
breakdown
we can see most of these ETFs are making
money uh all of them are doing very well
in number of Trades except this one labu
this is I think biotech ETFs it's only
53 trades and of course it's losing
money xlb that's a sector and it's also
losing money this is a form of gold
losing money
but interestingly gold
ETF is making money the best performer
is xbi it's 500 on average very good
Equity curve and xpi is the biotech ETF
and remember the labu it's also biotech
but this is a leverage ETF I think it's
two or three x so this is of course not
Leverage The xbi and this is and that
shows you that you know leverage ETF not
necessarily
good even when the strategy is
profitable if you're interested in this
strategy the code will be available in
the community you can download it for
free and if you want to replicate it
yourself remember I'm using the full
account to buy the maximum amount of
share in each instrument and I have a
function for that and it's available in
the code I buy up to maximum of 5 000
shares to get more Larry Connell
strategies watch this video and I will
see you there
foreign
[Music]
