Market regime is an extremely important
Concept in trading basically you want to
segment the market and separate regimes
for example if you're trading bonds then
obviously interest rate should be the
market regime because it affects that
market a lot but as algo Traders we are
not specifically specialized in a single
Market although you can be but since we
are dealing with numbers it makes sense
then to use some algorithm to define the
market regime for any Market as I
mentioned many times on this channel in
my alga trading master class and in my
community that I run the best Market
regime usually consists of Direction and
volatility although you can use other
options like I mentioned but usually
directional volatility have the biggest
effect on any Market without getting
into the specifics of that market an
example of volatility Market regime is
the average true range the average true
range measures the range of every bar on
daily basis and when that expands that
correlates with high volatility an
example of direction is simply a move
moving average if the moving average is
up that usually correlates with a bull
market Direction and of course if it's
down that correlates with a bear Market
of course as always as all good Traders
we need to test to verify so let me show
you some research that I've done here I
have the RSI 2 strategy this is the
basic strategy we are buying when it's
below 20 we are selling when it is above
80. I'm using the S P 500 futures and
this is the rsi2 so 20 and 80 buying
below and selling above selling not
selling short I'm just selling the
position the strategy is long only
because I'm using it on the S P 500 an
instrument that usually drifts up all
the time and let's see the performance
since 2006 making 177 three to one
drawdown ratio and 6 81 average trade 75
percent wind rate so the graph obviously
it's really good except this hiccup 2008
is down 2018 is down and since 2018 we
have been on a huge run and by the way
this basic strategy I started featuring
it about two years ago so if you traded
it on one contract 22-23 that's almost
fifty thousand dollars in profit this
year look at this 91 profitable rate for
the last 11 trades on average you're
making 3 200 that is huge unbelievable
it's an outlier but you know if you
trade long enough then you will face
this and of course the opposite anyways
enough rambling Let's test some filters
so I have here the adx and the average
true range and the 200-day moving
average first thing I will use is the
200-day moving app so now we are only
trading taking the signal when we are
above the 200-day moving average and
let's see the curve so again we still
have this hiccup in 2020.
and now we are making 98 000 dollars
less trades is still a good average
trade and a good win rate these are good
but we're making a much less amount of
money also the return to draw down now
drop two two to one so now we will only
take the signal the RSI signal when the
adx 20 is below 20. and now we enhance
the win rate we also enhance the average
trade and let's look at the performance
here and definitely win has the return
to draw down ratio we used to be three
to one now we are five to one so we
enhance at least three metrics so I
really really like this filter finally
let me use the ATR which is the
approximation of the volatility and now
this is what we are doing we're only
taking the LSI signal when the ATR is
dropping and this is the best filter so
far because the win rate jumped to 79.
the average trade jumped to 927 and the
return to Royal Range 206 to one we're
making one forty three thousand that is
the best filter and look at the annual
period
it's the same pattern we're losing 2007
2018 and since then we are been on a
huge run and by using this filter the 90
win rate of 2023 becomes a hundred
percent One Rate which matches another
100 in 2021 and if we look at our curve
we mitigated the crisis in 2020 without
targeting that crisis remember this
filter is on all period so we are not
targeting only the 2020. I cannot say
anything about this filter except it is
amazing on an amazing strategy already
so combining these two really you'll get
one of the best bulletproof strategies
that I have developed for the past seven
years I mean I keep developing
strategies and this one always comes on
top in terms of robustness of course I
have strategies that makes more money
but the robustness of this strategy and
the Very Creations that you can add to
it it's never seems to amaze me now if
you're an experienced algo Trader you
might have noticed that there is a catch
with all these filters because I picked
a fixed value while all these filters
are extremely optimizable let's pick the
moving average I pick 200 you can easily
go from 50 to 300 if you pick the adx
adx I pick 20 bars and the level 20 you
can optimize the level you can optimize
the look back of idea and if you pick
ATR the average true range again I pick
20 bars and the slope so again you can
pick a level or a slope and the look
back period so the problem with all
these indicators is the optimization you
cannot fix it I mean you can let's say
you pick you say okay from now on all my
moving averages filters are 200. you can
do that but it's really hard not to
optimize that number
so to solve that you need to pick
indicators that are unoptimizable and
that is what I did so I created a
proprietary indicators I call them stat
Oasis Market regime they consist of
Direction and volatility these
indicators are included in my algo
trading master class for free and they
come on sqx multichoice tradestation and
metatrader 4. now the way these
indicators works just like I told you
they you cannot optimize them they have
a state it's either black or white you
cannot do anything else so if you say I
want to trade in a black State then you
will trade in Black State and so on and
so forth and of course the best way to
illustrate this is with an example now
here I have version 2 of Market regime
indicators version 2 is under
development right now and they will be
included in algo trading masterclass
version 2 which will be released soon so
what I did in version 2 of these
indicators is I make them even less
optimizable and version 2 there is only
three states which is either ball
sideways or bear also I made two of them
so one of them is fast which will help
fast Traders so if you're trading on
intraday or extremely short term then
the short-term Market direction will
make sense and if you are trading a
little bit long term saying daily or
weekly then Market Direction long term
makes sense and this is the two Market
directions and finally I have the
volatility indicator which is only three
states quiet normal and volatile now
although I'm using these indicators as
filters but they can you be used many
other ways for example you can use them
in divergences and here is an example of
a Divergence so you can see this one
below was here and this low while we're
going up the price is down so we expect
the price to move up also we can pick
for example this is the long-term Trend
which is a bear and so we can expect to
take the next bear Trend this one or
this one and we go with the direction of
the big one so here for example we can
short here all the way down and we can
short here all the way down of course it
works on the opposite side so there are
many ways to use these indicators but in
this video we'll only use it as a filter
and the point being is we cannot
optimize it as just a stain so let me
bring the optimization and here I have
the four filters first filter is day of
the week this is an important filter and
you can use it in any strategy basically
you're filtering by the day you are
trading zero always means that the
filter is passing through you we are not
using so that's day of the week and then
we have three states for direction short
term free states for direction long term
free states for volatility in total we
have 384 combinations and let's run it
so the top result is 177 this is without
using anything this is our original RSI
strategy which is making 177 drawdown
-58 the average 681 return to draw down
ratio of 3 75 percent win rate 1.9
profit Factor so if I sort by custom
Fitness which is the return to draw down
we can see immediately that I have a
huge difference this is
8.17 profitability Win rate is up to 80
percent profit factor is up to 3.27
average trade is up to 977 and we are
making 143
000. now I'll skip these two because
they are making lower trades let's take
the next one
this is again 81 win rate 359 profit
Factor 957 average trade and 659 return
to draw down ratio huge huge Improvement
so this one
it's only using volatility that means
one is a quiet that means when the S P
500 is quiet it's not volatile why it
means it's below normal we usually tend
to do very well with the RSI strategy
the next best one is again low
volatility but this time we are using
Direction so short tell Direction three
that's bull that means this one is green
so when we are in a low volatility
Market plus we are in a short-term bull
market then we tend to do very well so
remember this strategy is a subset of
the strategy because we are using the
volatility filter and then we're adding
weird layering the second filter why
this filter is different again because I
cannot do anything I'm only optimizing
this three states I cannot optimize the
look back the level there's nothing
there it's only the states that I'm
optimizing and in fact I'm not
optimizing I'm looking at which state my
strategy performed best in let's look at
this first one you can see there is a
drawdown a little bit of drawdown in
2020 but not as big as we saw in the
original this is another profile it's
less trades but again we can see that we
are barely making a Throwdown you can
see that there are not enough trades
with these straight lines that means
we're not trading at this time but this
strategy can be easily added to another
strategy and a portfolio to learn more
watch this video and I will see you
there
thank you
[Music]
