if you are a Trader or an investor then
most likely you've heard of the
volatility index short called the vix
the vix represent the market expectation
of volatility over the next 30 days for
the S&P 500 Index basically when the VIX
Index reading is low that means
everything is peachy and the market
usually Trends up by the market I mean
the S&P 500 Index and its component when
the VIX Index spikes that means means
there is fear in the market there is
uncertainty in the market and usually
the S&P 500 Index will be going down but
every now and then it spikes and like
all instruments in the financial Market
actually like everything in the world it
has a pattern and we can see this
pattern so in this video we will see the
pattern and I will give you the secret
on how to trade the VIX Index this is
season x a platform that discovered
patterns for thousands of instruments
and here I loaded the volatility index
which again is called the vix for short
this is the last 10 years and if I do
this this will DET Trend so basically we
discover the pattern without the trend
also if you click this bug it will
remove the covid shock in the market now
once we do this we can see usually the
trend of the vix goes down until middle
of July and then it goes up until middle
of October then it goes down again you
can see it here also in the months now
this is not a fluke of the past 10 years
in fact if I go to five years you see
it's almost the same pattern go down
middle of July go up middle of October
go down and then if I go to 34 years
which is the total data can we see goes
down up and down again now there is a
mismatch Maybe by couple of weeks every
now and then but to trade this pattern
the best way to do it is through options
look at this pattern so if you go from
middle of July to about middle of
October there is 76% chance that you win
and the median return is about 15% also
if I switch this to the last 5 years
it's 100% win rate that means all of
them win in fact I can fine tunit to do
this
and still it's 100 but I can make more
money median return is 41% that is huge
so this is an amazing pattern and like I
told you every instrument has a pattern
but the vix is easily traded with
options and Futures and an ETF and you
can do all this but of course the
options and Futures are leveraged
already so you don't need to put a lot
of money to get the leverage but with
the ETF you need to put a lot of money
now the pattern I just showed you it's a
minimum of two months 2 and a half
months maybe so it's a long pattern yes
high wind rate yes uh the median return
is high but it's a long pattern but how
can we trade the vix with you know
short-term trading like I teach in this
Channel all the time so this pattern
will not we we cannot use this basically
so we need to look for shorter term
patterns now before I show you those
patterns let me show you the VX with the
S&P 500 Index on the same chart so here
I have data for about 13 years the
orange line is the vix and the green
line is the S&P 500 cash index and if I
zoom like
this we can now see a pattern emerge
which of course we know the vix moves in
the opposite direction of the S&P 500 or
you can say the S&P 500 moving the
opposite direction of the vix now 10
years ago usually the vix leads the S&P
500 so you can look at pattern and the
vix and trade the S&P 500 but due to the
efficiencies in the market the speed
hedge funds arbitraging every little
thing in the market so I don't see the
difference now you can look at pattern
the S&P 500 and trade the vix or do the
opposite look at pattern the vix and
trade the S&P 500 but instead of doing
this we should trade the vix alone and
the S&P 500 alone and since the vix it's
the opposite of the S&P 500 then the
easiest way is just to trade the vix
with the same pattern of the S&P 500 but
instead of going long we go short now I
mentioned this a million times on this
channel the S&P 500 it's a Me reverting
instrument that tends to drift lift up
most of the time and the most successful
strategies on the S&P 500 is a meere
reversion strategy going long so that
means using exactly the same everything
we will use a me reversion to go short
on the vix and because they are the
opposite most every pattern that I
showed you on this channel on the S&P
500 will work on the short side on the
vix here we are in multicharts
and I loaded the futures of the VIX
Index and this is our first strategy
since we are going short using mirror
version so we need some type of pull up
so this is one of them if the current
high is the highest high of the past
five bars then we will short and we will
exit after 10 bars so let's apply the
strategy and see what we get so we have
the strategy applied now for 17 years
worth of data and we we have 261 trade
65% win rate averaging
$350 per trade that is really good
average trade for the VIX Index we look
at return to draw down ratio is 1.23
that means we have a big draw down which
you can see here we're making
$91,000 with $773,000 almost
$74,000 of a draw down and we can see
the draw down it's happening here but
remember we are holding for 10 days we
have no stop loss no profit Target the
next strategy is if the close higher
than the previous close and the previous
close higher than the two bars ago and
two bars ago close higher than the three
bars ago close then we will go short
again there is nothing special here we
are just waiting for a pull up so first
strategy was looking at the highest high
now we're just looking for higher closes
in a row and then we will go short again
we will exit with a fixed 10 bars and
this strategy behaves much better we
have 227 trades with 70% win rate a lot
higher average rate
677 and if we look at return to draw
down is 2.17 again it's much better but
still that draw down is really big big
but now we are making
$153,000 with about $71,000 in the draw
down and the final strategy we will
check is the RSI 2 above 75 will go
short again no surprise here since I
have 100 strategies on the channel going
long when the RSI 2 goes below 25 so the
opposite is when the RSI 2 go above 75
then we short the VIX Index and this is
the result 2 58 trades 65% win rate and
284 average trade and the return to draw
down here is almost one so we're making
$73,000 and we have a draw down of about
the same amount of money now remember
all these strategies have a fixed 10day
bar so which is usually long since I
usually exit within 3 days but this is
the safety exit we need a better exit if
we get it and usually the better exit is
the RSI so if the RSI goes below 25 then
we should exit and the 10 bar will be
our safety net so if we don't get the
RSI below 25 then the 10 bar will click
in so let's add that condition so this
is how the strategy looks like we enter
short when the RSI of the vix goes above
75 and we exit when the RSI of the vix
go below 25 if this doesn't happen
within 10 bars then we exit now before
you take these strategies and add a
stop- loss or profit Target the first
thing you should do is add a filter so
let me test some filters on these
strategies and see what we get so here
are the results of the filter and if I
sort by return to draw down look at this
now we have six 5 4 3 many threes and
twos all these are simple filters added
to the RSI strategy on the vix so this
is the first strategy with the filter
77,000 and now our draw down goes to 12
and A2 so it went from almost 73 to 12 1
12 which of course going to make this
look really really good this is another
filter where we're making 79 and our
draw down is 162 and this is the equity
chart so you see how this goes you just
add a filter and you'll get multiple
different Equity curves that are much
better than the original strategy so the
secret to trade the VIX Index is use any
successful strategy on the S&P 500 and
flip it to the short side usually it
will work most of the time sometimes you
will need to tweak the filter and these
are some filters added to strategy 2
which was three up close in a row and
then we go short and we can see again
we're having multiple strategies with
over three return to draw down ratio let
me pick this one this is making 105 five
the equity curve looks very very nice of
course you can mix and match these
strategies in a portfolio and they will
all trade short on the vix using
different filters so they will trade at
different times if you like this video
then you will love the next video
[Music]
