if your trading chart looking something
like this then you are in trouble
because more indicators are not
correlated with better strategy results
in this video I will prove this to you I
will show you a single pattern that is
traded on multiple Forex pairs with win
rate above 85% on the major Forex Pairs
and the pattern has been working for the
past decade now don't get me wrong
indicators are extremely powerful and we
can use them to enter or exit a tra or
to filter a trade but I would like to
show you how you can trade without
indicators because patterns are as
powerful as indicator and today pattern
is no different it is an extremely
simple pattern that we will use on
multiple Forex pairs exactly the same
way here is how our pattern looks like
so it's a two bar pattern the first bar
we don't care how it looks like if it's
up or down it doesn't matter the second
bar is a down bar so this is the long
pattern we are looking for a down bar
meaning the close is below the open also
the close has to be below yesterday's
low so only two conditions for this bar
it has to be a down bar and the close
below yesterday's low once we have this
pattern then we will enter next day at
the penetration of the current high so
if the price goes up through this level
then we will buy if we buy then we have
two exit conditions if the close price
is above our entry price meaning we are
profitable then we will exit this can
happen on any B if it doesn't happen for
the next 10 bars which is a number of
fixed bars then we will also exit so two
exits either profitable close if it
doesn't happen after 10 bars we exit and
it's the opposite for the short pattern
again two bar pattern the first bar we
don't care how it looks like the second
bar which is the current bar it has to
be an up bar so the close higher than
the open and also the close has to be
higher than the previous high once this
pattern happen then the next day we are
looking to short at this low once we are
in a short trade then if the close is
below our entry price because we are
shorting that means we are profitable so
we will exit this can happen at any bar
if it doesn't happen for 10 bars then we
will exit now in this video on purpose I
didn't pick the best pattern to trade I
also didn't pick the best Market to
trade I just wanted to show you that
this is extremely doable you can easily
find a pattern to trade on any market so
here I have the US Dollar Canadian
dollar Forex pair represented in Futures
with a symbol CD and the strategy is
applied long and short let's look at
some examples so here is a buy example
so we have a down bar which is the close
lower than the open and then the next
day the bar penetrates the previous high
so we enter also the same day the close
is profitable so we exit now you notice
here these are all down days but the
next bar never penetrates the high this
is a short trade an up bar and then the
next day the bar penetrates the low so
we enter short now we wait for a
profitable position or 10 bars in this
case we get the profitable close here so
this close is profitable and then we
exit on the same bar this is a short
trade and the low penetrates the
previous low because this is an up bar
we enter short but we don't get a
profitable close so we exit with a loss
after 10 bars looking at the strategy
results we have
249 trades since 2011 126 Longs 123
short and we notice immediately the long
side doesn't perform well so the short
side is making
$128 for the Canadian dollar this is
really good average trade because the
tick in the Canadian dollar is
6.25 so two ties and commission is like
$20 so this is really good so even this
is profitable with including Commission
in slippage but it's not the best this
is the equity curve it's a very good
Equity curve going up all the time and
these are the annual returns since 2011
and you see how the win rate is amazing
for the past 14 years we can see for the
short side is
91% and for the long side side is
84% now let's look at other Forex pairs
this is the Swiss frank again about 200
trades split in the middle again very
high win rate for both long and short
but the short side here is amazing and
the long side is not tradable this is
the japanesians and this time the long
side is losing a lot but the short side
again it's very good this is the
Australian dollar again about 250 trades
very good win rate and this time both of
them are not that good and finally this
is the EUR US dollar again about 250
trades and this time both sides are very
good so the short side is $32 on average
with a 91% win rate and the long side is
$150 with about again 90% win rate so
both sides are amazing the equity curve
again alone is amazing and the annual
period analysis all of them are
profitable and you can see how the
fluctuation in the win rate is minimal
you can see we are going from 83% all
the way to 100% so the strategy performs
best on the EUR US dollar remember all
these Forex pairs are against the US
dollar with the Euro performing the best
and the Australian doar is the worst so
here is a portfolio of the six major
Forex pairs so USD against the Japanese
Y and USD against Swiss frank British
pound Canadian dollar Australian dollar
and Euro dollar only the euro dollar is
Trading long and short and all the other
strategies are trading short only and
this is how the equity curve looks like
it's amazing going up all the time we
have 800 trades on the short side and
127 trades on the long side remember
this is only for the euro dollar and
both of them achieving the same average
and very close win rate so overall we
have 88.5% win rate with about $150 on
average this is the periodical analysis
since 2011 we have all winning years
with an average of 70 trades per year
this is the contribution from every
symbol so so the Euro because Trading
long and short profitably it's about
$56,000 the next best is the Swiss frank
on the short side only about
$27,000 and the rest are double digits
and remember the Australian dollar is
the worst one and we can see how is it
doing so the short side alone is 77 now
remember it used to be 50 with the long
side but because we eliminated the long
side so some trade will have time to
work and that's why you get higher
average trade and this is the best part
the correlation between all these
strategies on weekly basis is like this
and the highest correlation we see
between Bridge pound and the Swiss frank
but even then this is 0 two and it's
almost like this is considered nothing
anything below 2.3 is really considered
very very low correlation but here we
have 0.05 .02 and 0er now this is very
very good when you are constructing a
portfolio you want this correlation to
be very low so every strategy is working
alone also this will help you a lot when
you are capitalizing this portfolio so
the less correlated the strategies the
less Capital you are going to need to
trade this portfolio now why this port
folio and all the strategies I started
them since 2011 so this is the same
portfolio and now we are starting in
2008 and we can see a big draw down
starting around May
2010 and ended in May 2011 now this
doesn't mean that you cannot trade this
still the strategy is
amazing the one single pattern on six
major Forex Pairs and doing very well
but this type of draw down we can easily
filter it out with basically a strategy
filter but because the strategy has no
filter it's only a pattern that's why
but I'm going to show you a simple
filter that you don't need even to code
it in you just need to look at the chart
so this is the S&P 500 and you might say
well why you are doing a filter on the
S&P 5 remember we are trading all these
pairs against the US dollar and of
course the S&P 500 is the best
representative index of of the US
economy so this is a monthly bar on the
S&P 500 and using the 50 bars on the
monthly chart will keep you on the right
side so you can see here July
2001 we get out in October
2004 and this is July
2008 we get out in December 2010 we can
add a 10 bar so again on the monthly
chart the yellow line now is the 10 bar
moving average and the red line is the
50 bar moving average and now we can use
the cross as the filter and the uh the
advantage of the Cross now is we will be
on the right side with these so you see
here the yellow is above the red again
here again here again here so we are
always on the right side and we still
get out of these draw
now even though I showed you that you
can use a single pattern to trade six
strategies in a portfolio that is not
the best way to go about it you should
use all available patterns add filters
with indicators and produce robust
strategies that you can combine them in
a portfolio to trade profitably if you
like this video then you will love the
next one
[Music]
