as a Trader most of the time you feel
stuck trying to come up with an idea to
build a trading strategy but what if I
told you that there is a secret method
to easily build a strategy on any
instrument you like and that secret
method is intraday seasonality this
method is so good because you don't need
to come up with an idea the pattern will
be there and you just need to find it
and trade it and I'm going to show you
how to do this very easily if you are a
stock Trader then you are used to the
session this would be in the US uh from
9:30 to 4:00 p.m. in Europe it's a
little bit shorter and it's also short
in Asian stock market but Forex Futures
and crypto trades 24 hours a day and of
course that attracts different type of
Traders during different time of day so
for example we have the US session we
have the Asian session and we have the
European session and each session
attracts different type of Traders so
our job as Traders is to easily find a
pattern intraday during one of these
sessions and then we trade that pattern
so for example I have the US Australian
dollar here represented by Futures and
in the background I have an indicator
that plots a different color for every
session so the green session is the
Asian session so this would be Japan New
Zealand Australia Hong Kong and then the
yellow part is the European session so
France Germany UK okay and then the red
part is the US session so that will
include Canada and the US and Mexico of
course they do overlap and it's up to
you to Define where those sit so for
example here is my definition so London
session from 2:00 a.m. to 9 a.m. this is
defined in the Eastern Standard Time in
the US and then New York session from 9
to 5:00 p.m. and then the Asian session
from 5:00 p.m. M to 2 A.M like I
mentioned of course you can change this
definition up to so going back to our
chart the white candles are the price
and the yellow curve is the ATR of two
days and then at the bottom we can see
the volume so immediately I can find a
volume here that usually the last hour
in European session and first hour in
the US session has a spike in volatility
you can see even though the at R here is
very high compared to this one but the
pattern is still the same so high
volatility and go back to low high
volatility go back to low high
volatility go back to low and this
pattern of course does not repeat every
single time but usually it's there high
and low high and low high and low now
this will be hard to find if you are
just looking at the chart now in this
case it was easy we can find volatility
spiking
usually in the overlap hour between uh
European session and New York session
but to really find a pattern that you
can trade easily you need to use some
math and that's very easy we need to
think about it this way if we have let's
say the last 15 years of data then we
bring every hour of every day of that
here and stack it up so for example we
take Monday 8 a a.m. to 999 a.m. we
stack every single Monday 8:00 a.m. to
9:00 a.m. on top of each other and we
take their average so let's say the
average of 8:00 a.m. to 9:00 a.m. of
every Monday we make $10 if we buy and
sell the close like we buy the open sell
the close then we bring 9:00 a.m. to
10:00 a.m. 10 to 11 and so on so forth
so we end up with 24 hours so that
24hour cells each cell represent that
hour on that day for the past 15 years
now there are many ways to do this
through programming and of course you
have Google sheet and Excel sheet so
this is an Excel tool that does exactly
what I just described so you see here we
have 24 hours in every day so from
Sunday to Saturday and then it just
Stacks every hour of every day for
whatever data you have and in this case
we have more than 17 years now this tool
is provided to my algo trading master
class students but like I mentioned I
described how you can do it and now we
don't need to look at the charts for the
past 17 years we can easily find pattern
so immediately we notice that Wednesday
Trends up and somewhere in Thursday we
Trends down all the way to Friday and
then last day last 3 4 hours in Friday
we go up of course we know so this is is
let's say midnight Wednesday all the way
to 400 a.m. and Thursday and then we go
down all the way to 11:00 a.m. on a
Friday and then we go up we also can
find this here so this is the average
win loss in dollars look at this so
normally let's say this is. 21 that that
hour doesn't give us anything $3 $3 four
but then we find something interesting
for example this one 10 a to 11:00 a.m.
on Wednesday we lose $6.7 on
average and this hour we lose seven this
hour we make
11 and then we have some stacking
happening so look at this if we short
the 9 a.m. open of Thursday and we cover
our short by 11:00 a.m. we make on
average $20 so this is a huge uh Edge
and like I mentioned if we buy Wednesday
at 12 all the way to Thursday at 4 so
you can see I can pick these Sals and
also add to them these one up to four
and look at this $63 on average and if I
short from 5 all the way to 11 on Friday
then also I will make $60 so these are
huge edges because the Australian dollar
Futures the single take is $5 and the
commission is like one and a half so two
tickes in and out that's $10 with
commission that's
$13 so $13 will cover the Inn out with
slippage so 60 it's like four times
already the uh slippage and commission
which is what I teach that you need
minimum of four times slipage and
commission now once you find this
pattern you need now to test it in your
trading plan platform but the rules are
very easy you know when to enter when to
exit exactly of course you can test
other choices and see which one is
better now the tool is based on 60
Minutes although the concept can be
applied to anything can be applied to 1
minute to 300 minutes the problem is
this Excel sheet tool that I built is on
60 Minutes to make the tool usable
because if you try to make it customized
or you put more data in like for example
15 minutes that means you're loading
more bars and becomes very cumbersome
and the tool will be very slow to uh
respond so to combat that issue in Alo
trading masterclass version two which is
coming out very soon I took this to the
next step which is now I have a program
that scans all the data for for the
whole week and find out the best
patterns and let you know it actually
give you all the patterns and then you
just need to sort which one is doing uh
what so roughly you get about 15,000
strategies per instrument on 60 Minutes
now if you increase that then you
increase the number of variations and if
you reduce that you reduce the number of
variation so because this is now an algo
so you can now build it on 240 minutes
you can build it on 300 minutes
265 minutes it doesn't matter you can
build any blocks and then you can find
different patterns that usually other
Traders cannot find so here is our tool
apply to 60 Minutes Australian dollar
Futures so this is the US dollar
Australian dollar represented by Futures
and 60 Minutes bars and at the bottom
here I have the daily bars the reason I
have daily bars is because we going to
use it to apply filters for our strategy
so here is our Alo optim ization first
we have long and short or we are testing
all the Longs and all the shorts and
then we are testing for day of the week
so 1 to 5 and then we are testing the
start time so 0 to 2300 so that's
midnight to 11 p.m. and then the number
of holding bar so remember this is
hourly time frame so 40 that's less than
2 days so theoretically if I want to
test everything this should be around a
100 because 100 hours is roughly 4 days
and of course you don't want to hold
like more than 4 days because we only
have a week remember the pattern will
repeat the next week so if I do 100 you
will get about
24,000 combinations this is remember on
hourly time frame if this is 15 minutes
then you can imagine this of course will
keep growing but it doesn't matter how
like you can have near 250,000
combination you can always use the
genetic to filter the strategies but in
our case like I mentioned 40 is enough
because I mean we're cheating but we
already know the our pattern is less
than one and a half day so 40 should be
enough so that should give us about
10,000 combinations so I have here the
result sorted by return to draw down now
let's look at the average trade remember
the slippage and commission is about $15
so we really need at least
$30 per trade on average to really use
that strategy remember we can always
enhance the strategy with a filter so
let's filter for 30 and above so now
looking at the results sorted by return
to draw down look at these pattern so
two is long and one is short this is the
long and short filter and this is day of
the week so three is Wednesday and four
is Thursday and then this is the entry
hour and the number of holding bars so
keep an eye here on the day of the week
so we have three and
four here is two so the first two is
number 35 and if we look at this trade
so it's entering
Tuesday at 1000 p.m. so this is long
Tuesday at 10 p.m. holding for 31 bars
and if we look closely at Tuesday so
Tuesday at 10 it's over here holding for
31 bars so that's two bars here and 24
on Wednesday 26 and then five bars so
that's about 5 a.m. so basically this
patter it's trading the same Wednesday
pattern it's just starting it early over
here and that's why it's number 35 in
terms of Return of draw down because
we're holding more bars and most likely
we're facing bigger draw down now also
we notice something else is good so for
example this is two that means it's long
on
Wednesday so 400 p.m. holding for 10
bars 7 p.m. holding for eight bars 7
p.m. holding for 9 6 p.m. holding for 9
4 P.M holding for so that tells me also
something else which is this pattern is
really good because it doesn't matter
where I start or how many bars I hold
I'm roughly achieving the same average
trade which is around $40 and if I want
to go by the average trade so the
maximum I have is
$61 which is short on Thursday at 6:00
a.m. holding for 28 bars next one again
$60 same pattern because I'm shorting on
Thursday but this is just starting
earlier 4:00 a.m. next one same pattern
starting at 6 but now instead of 28 bars
holding 26 bar so you see all these are
the same pattern so here is the pattern
applied and let's look at the
performance so we're making
53,000 and this is the equity curve
trade analysis $867 trade with $61 on
average and the annual period analysis
looks like this so literally within 15
minutes we can build a robust strategy
on any instrument now of course this
strategy already good and tradeable $60
on average on the Australian dollar is
very good but we can easily enhance that
with a filter so if I want to compare
this strategy to the regular strategies
that I do on the S&P 500 where they
usually make about $400 on average this
will seem like low average trade $100
but let me show you the comparison
between these two so to trade one e mini
S&P 500 contract you need about
$113,000 so this $113,000 go up and down
with volatility when the volatility
increase all margin for all Futures goes
up and when the volatility decrease they
go down but this is the requirement in
June
2024 so it's about $113,000 to trade the
S&P e mini Futures now the micro Futures
is is one10 of the S&P e mini so that's
why you see here the margin requirement
is about 1,300 but now let's go down and
let's see the Australian dollar so
Australian dollar currently same time is
about ,600 so if I want to compare the
S&P 500 average trade with the
Australian dollar average trade then I
have to trade about eight contracts
Australian dollar futures for every e
Mini contract on the S&P 500 so without
playing with the code we can do this in
the strategy properties we can increase
the fixed shares contracts to8 so now we
have
$210,000 we are making and our average
trade of course will increase to
775 so compared to the S&P 500 this is a
really really good strategy remember we
didn't apply any filter yet next we can
do the same procedure for the Longs side
so we pick the straty for the long side
and we know that pattern already from
the chart and then we find the best
average trade we apply filters and also
we will use eight contracts so that it's
comparable to the S&P 500 now the long
and short they don't overlap so that's
great we can combine both the long and
short in a single strategy single code
using the same capital and here we have
the two strategies applied so this is
short side on Thursday at 6:00 a.m.
holding 428 bars and then this one is
the long side on Wednesday at 400 p.m.
holding for 11 bars so as you can see
they don't overlap and of course they
don't trade the same week because they
have different filters so for example
here this is the long side buying the
long side buying the long side buying
but the short side only happening here
and of course this will be different
every week so again here we have both of
them trading here we have one of them
here we have both of them here we have
none of them and so on and so forth so
the filters will play a big role and the
result of this combinations is we have
about a th000 trades on average they're
making
$300 the long side is $200 the short
side is $400 50 this is the equity curve
and it's amazing it's going up all the
time since 2007 overall we are making
300,000 with 5.6 return to draw down
ratio an annual period analysis from
2007 all the way to the current year
2024 now remember I told you you can do
this on any bar and I did the same
sequence on 180 minutes on the Japanese
Yen so here is the Japanese Yen 180
minutes bar and again we're using the
daily bars for the filter and the
Japanese Yen almost double the margin
requirement for the Australian dollar so
to compare it to the S&P 500 we need to
trade about four contracts and as you
can see here I'm trading four contracts
and the result of this strategy is 164
with 8 and 1 half return to draw down
ratio this is how the curve looks like
and we're making about
$440 on average on the short side annual
period analysis we have two losing gears
now of course you can apply this concept
on every single instrument in the
universe because every instrument will
have its own pattern stocks ETFs Forex
Futures crypto but of course not all of
them will yield a good pattern so some
of them will not yield a good pattern
even though the pattern exists but
probably there's not enough money or the
win rate is low or the draw down is big
and so on so forth if you like this
video about intraday seasonal strategies
then you will love the next video
[Music]
