if you look up the term Market structure
you will find hundreds of videos
rambling about Market structure where
you need to Define higher highs lower
lows higher lows ascending triangles
Market profile volume and on and on and
on in fact all this is garbage it means
nothing to you when you want to trade by
the time you define higher highs and
higher lows the trend is already gone
and I promise you no nobody is managing
millions of dollars sitting and watching
the screen pointing higher highs and
lower lows they don't do that so when it
comes to trading we should follow the
professionals who are making money in
the market consistently year after year
and we should not follow gurus on
YouTube including me without testing the
pattern that they are teaching you I
promise you by the end of this video you
will be ahead of 99% of Traders out
there looking to sculp and find the
perfect strategy and the perfect
indicator because it all boils down to
Market Edge I Define market Edge as the
characteristics of the market a good
analogy is let's say if you have kids
then even though your kids came from the
same parents living in the same house
speaking the same language but each have
different skill if you are in a sport
suppor in team is the same thing not the
whole team have the same skills each one
excel in a certain skill if you are in
school or university then the same thing
applies not all students attending the
same class having the same skill and
markets are exactly the same every
Market is traded by thousands of
participants and each has their own
fundamental principles that guides the
price along the way so when you hear the
the term that the strategy has to be
symmetrical that means nothing in the
real world I mean long-term Trend
following I might say yeah kind of maybe
some fundamental strategies long term
will work on all markets but even then
long is totally different than short
short usually is very volatile and with
it comes with an expansion of uh the
ranges and it's short it doesn't uh
sustain for long term while long-term
trends usually it's not volatile and it
takes a long time to build but for
shortterm strategy this does not exist
at all the long is totally different
than the short and each market behaves
totally different in Long than short so
Market Edge is all about finding that
characteristics of each market does it
work well with long or short with mere
revers or breakout once you find that
then it becomes very easy to build a
strategy but of course like always we
need to test to verify the Merit of our
thesis this is the export for crude oil
data since 200 and 7 so as you can see I
have the date then we have open high low
close and volume then I calculate many
things most importantly let's focus on
this number so this number is the amount
of dollars we make if we buy the open
and sell at the close so this is the
next day we lose
$150 the next day and so on so forth and
if you make a pivot table then you will
end up with something like this so this
is the average of the amount of dollars
we make for all the periods in the
analysis which is since 2007 so if I buy
the open sell the close every single day
since January 1st 2007 all the way to
September 2024 on average I will be
losing about
$25 this is not taking slippage and
commission into consideration so here is
the first takeaway when it comes to
crude oil Market which is overall it
tends to go down more than go up because
as you saw from the data if we buy every
day we end up losing money on average
now you might say well you know some
days you lose more than you win so it
makes sense also to see the win loss
percentage and here is our win loss
percentage so you see we win more than
we lose that means the close is up more
than the close is down but when the
close is down it travels further meaning
the range is bigger when we are losing
that's why the average is minus instead
of plus so the second takeaway in the
crude oil Market is the win percent is
higher it's about 7% higher than the
loss percent but because when we lose we
lose more that's why the average is in
the minus so here the edge is not clear
we lose on average but the win percent
is higher so it's like conflicting
results so here is the EUR US dollar and
we can see on average we are- $6 here is
the S&P 500 and on average we are making
about $20 here is natural gas on average
we are losing $70 and finally here is
wheat and on average we are losing about
$37 and here is the wind loss for wheat
on average we lose about
$37 but also we lose more than we win
and we see the number number of losing
trades 2350 about to about 2050 so we
almost lose 14% more than we win so for
the wheat Market it's a totally
different story The Edge is there on the
short side because on average we lose
$37 if we buy every day the total number
of losses is 14% more than the win so
then now these edges align so for the we
Market if you only take these two data
points that on average we lose more than
we win and on average the close is below
the open that alone can give you a head
start of everybody else because now you
only need to build short strategies on
the wheat Market more than 90% of the
time your short strategy will be
profitable and will be robust now we can
go a step further so on average in the
wheat Market we lose about
$37 now I have my market regime
indicators these are proprietary
indicators that are included with my Alo
trading master class and if I include
the long-term Market regime we can see
also the behavior is different when we
are in bare Market on average we lose
about $20 when we are in bull market we
lose about
$70 and when we are sideways we lose
about $45 so for the wheat Market we
lose on average and we lose more than we
win also when the market is trending up
if we buy every day we lose more than if
the market is trending down so those are
huge pieces of information that if I
Define the market let's say the 50-day
moving average above the 200 day moving
average let's say this is our bull
market if I short every day in this bull
market I will make on average $70 a day
I can take this a step further if I put
the previous day filter so this filter
is checking if yesterday is an update
and this probably shows it better so
this is when you yesterday is up and
this is when yesterday is down and we
see the difference in the behavior yes
all of them still short is better cuz
remember all these are negative that
means every day if I short I make money
and the difference in this market regime
which is the bull market when yesterday
is up is huge because here on average I
make $112 per day now of course you can
take this analysis further and you can
see the behavior per month the behavior
per day of the week but overall we start
from the main characteristics of the
market which is wheat works very well
with short that means if you start with
a short strategy you'll be much better
off than any other indicator out there
you drill down and if you define the
market in up down sideways you find
shorting in up Market is much better and
then just a simple filter which is
yesterday is down or up gets you even
further now of course these filters this
is just one that I use uh just one bar
so it's not optimized but of course you
can use any type of filter like macd adx
the possibilities are endless but the
idea is not to build a strategy yet we
are just defining what this Market will
do very well with which type of of
strategy Direction so this is shorting
every day we have about 4,500 trades on
average we are making $37 because
remember the Excel sheet shows a minus
so I'm shorting here that's why we are
positive and now I'm going to add the
condition to short only in bull market
so let me compile and now we are down to
about 1,000 trades and our average trade
went to almost $72 and now if I add the
condition of yesterday's bar is up
meaning just yesterday the close is
higher than the open so let's
compile and now we are down to about 530
trades with
$124 so this matches my Excel sheet
perfectly like in every step of the way
the uh starting which is about $37 and
then the uh bu Market which is about7
something dollars and then when we add
the filter of yesterday's bar we end up
with about 50030 trades with about 120
plus dollars on average this average is
alone is you can work with like this can
be a strategy already but that is not
how you use Market Edge you use Market
Edge to Define what is the best
direction for this Market to go long or
to go short
and which strategy style to use is it me
reversion or breakout because again each
market has a separate behavior for Mir
reversion or breakout and if you start
with this information it will be a lot a
lot easier to build profitable robust
strategies also this information make it
really clear that not every strategy
will work the same way long or short or
not every strategy that works on Market
a will work on Market B because of this
inherit behavior in each market if you
like this video then you will love the
next video
[Music]
