as an Alo Trader I am a big fan of
patterns because they can easily be
programmed and tested and then if they
work properly you can easily build
strategies around them today's video is
about Bull and Bear hooks these patterns
comes in different flavors depending on
who is the name behind it so I know Toby
krael has one Joe Ras has one and Thomas
pulowski and probably many others but
they all revolve around the same thing
which is usually a pattern that looks
like a hook you know the fish hook to
hook Traders on the opposite side so I
simplify two of them and we will test
them in this video and this is what the
bull hook looks like so like I mentioned
it looks like a hook so think of it like
a check mark flipped on its side we
usually have a downtrend and then the
last bar which is today's bar is an up
bar and it's a small smaller range than
yesterday's bar and it's also an inside
day so the high is lower than the
previous High and the low is higher than
the previous low so once we find this
pattern we buy with a stop order Above
This High because we're in downtrend and
we want a confirmation to go long and
the second variations of the bull Hook
is the kind of the opposite so the hook
looks like this and the the pattern
setup is a up bar and then today is a
down bar with a range smaller than
yesterday and the open above the
previous High and the close below the
previous close so this pattern requires
only two bars and this pattern requires
four bars so let's build these patterns
and test them so I will build this
pattern in strategy quantex I'm running
version 139 here and we are in algo
Wizard and here is the pattern as
represented by this picture so we have
three lower lows and this is the low
lower than the previous low is true for
three bars so you can find this In the
comparison so if you go to comparison
and you go to lower for X number of bars
you click that in and you select three
bars and you can allow the same values
so basically if the low is the same as
previous low then that's okay and then
we want to shift by one because we are
calculating everything on this bar so on
this bar I want to make sure that I had
three lower lows so that's why you need
the shift and this is what I have here
so you see the shift is one and then the
range is smaller than the previous range
so this is the bar range lower than the
bar range one bar ago and then an inside
Day meaning the high lower than the
previous High and the low higher than
the previous low again here we look the
low is higher than the previous low the
high is lower than the previous high and
finally this is upd so the close is
higher than the open and I'm using trade
station Engine with es. d data so es. D
is the S&P 500 E mini Futures I have the
data here since 2006 and we are using a
fixed contract to trade no slippage and
commission this is just testing so let's
run a full back
test and this is very strange to me so
if you watch any of my videos on the
channel you know that the S&P 500 works
really well with miror version
strategies going long and this is
basically a pattern that is a mere
reversion pattern because it's a
pullback three days pullback and then
you go along and I've tested hundreds of
these patterns and usually anything with
a pullback works really well so I am
amazed that this pattern first of all
it's losing money and second of all we
have only 15 trades and that made me uh
think that there's something wrong with
the logic so I went ahead and tested
this on another platform which is
multicharts using easy line and this is
testing the strategy in multicharts
using power language and we have the
same thing so it's 15 trades losing
$260 on average okay so even though I
confirmed that this pattern it is
producing 15 trades it's still like I
don't get it like why this is happening
so let's dissect this pattern and let's
see what's preventing more trades from
happening obviously it's not the
pullback because you know all the
strategies that I build on the S&P 500
using mirror version and they are all a
form of pullback three bars five bars
even 10 bars like the RSI 2 that's a
pullback of many bars macd the Ballinger
bands they're all pullback
so it only makes sense that to test only
the last bar that's it seems the
bottleneck okay so let's remove
everything let's keep this one this is
the pullback and then we'll remove
everything and start adding them slowly
to see which one is the culprit so in
strategy Quant X right now I don't have
a short strategy so the easiest way
instead of deleting you can just pull
them in the short exit because we don't
have a short short entry so these
basically they are null they will not
produce anything and let's run the full
strategy
now okay so this makes a lot of sense we
have about 200
trades we are basically waiting for
three bar pullback and we are trading
the day after remember there is a shift
of one here uh because of the pattern so
remember we are taking the signals after
the this bar so even when I remove it
I'm still waiting for a bar the long
entry is enter other a stop like I
mentioned we are entering at a stop
order at the high of the bar and I am
exiting after three bars so now that we
know this works which of course makes a
lot of sense let's start adding I will
start with the close greater than the
open so this is means we have a green
bar today so let's pull that in and
let's
test okay so this is definitely one of
the culprits so but we still have 150
trades so that's not all of it and so
let me take that
off and then we have the bar range so
this is the range of today smaller than
range of yesterday so this is acting as
a good filter because we have less
profits but we have better return to
draw down so this is definitely a a good
condition to keep and finally let's try
the inside day so we bring back the high
and the low so this is the inside day
and let's see what we
get and this is definitely the other
culprit so the inside day and the Green
Day they are what's making this pattern
produce lower trades I mean let's add
the uh the up bar and let's see in from
28 we go to 50 inde definitely so these
two it's what's messing this pattern so
if we go back to the pattern it's the
fact that it's an up day a green bar and
also an inside day remember we are
looking for a smaller range so we know
the bar will be smaller than this one
but we are requiring it to be an inside
Day meaning inside this bar that why we
have very few trades okay so we keep the
three lower lows
and the last bar is a small range and
then we enter at a stop order for the
high of the day before today and then we
hold for three bars and that looks like
a really good pattern on the S&P 500
which of course is very expected and we
can see the trade average trade is 550
64% win rate that's totally expected and
then the equity chart looks like this of
course we can add a filter to enhance
these draw down and then trade analysis
also we can check it on the charts here
so we can pick this trade so you see we
have three lower lows and then this guy
is a smaller range and so we enter next
day at the high of this bar so it's a
stop order we enter and we hold for
three bars we exit next day and then the
next trade these are three lower lows
and now even though this bar is higher
than this but still the range is smaller
so we enter at the high of this bar
which is of course it was the open we
hold three bars and we exit and let's
look at the next one here's the next
trade so we have three lower lows the
next bar smaller range than this one and
we enter at the high of this bar again
which was the open because it's already
above it and we hold for three bars and
we exit so the code is behaving properly
the strategy is good we already know
this pattern is good but remember this
pattern now is adjusted so we don't need
this bar to be an up bar and we don't
need this bar to be an inside bar only a
small range and this pattern will work
and now we'll program bull hook two so
first we need yesterday's bar to be an
up bar so the close of yesterday is
higher than the open of yesterday and
then today's bar is a smaller range so
bar range of today is smaller than the
bar range of
yesterday and then the open higher than
the previous high so the open higher
than the previous High the close lower
than the previous close the close lower
than the previous close and finally we
will enter at a stop order of high of
today so this is different than the
other pattern where we enter of the high
of yesterday but because we are opening
above the high of yesterday so we need
to use the high of today so again the
long entry we are using a stop order
with the high of today and again we are
exiting after three bars so let's take
the signal and I'm using trade station
same data the es e mini Futures and I'm
using one contract no slippage and
commission so let's run a full test and
again this is very puzzling I mean we
have about 18 years of data and yet we
have only 23 trades and this is a two
bar pattern I mean you expect this to be
probably happening I don't know at least
200 times really this pattern only
happened 25 times so again I tested the
pattern in another platform multicharts
using power language and we get the same
results now this time while still
puzzling I'm getting only 23 trades but
remember this is not a pullback now so
we are it's like a breakout so the bar
is up and just we have a like a hook
down and then we want to go up again so
it's a breakout strategy and we know
that breakout strategies don't do well
on the S&P 500 still like the number of
Trades is very low so again let's try to
find the culprit why we are getting a
very low number of Trades unfortunately
this time we don't have a lot to play
with I mean we can play with this one
and the range but the hook is based on
these two so we cannot remove these so
again I will move them to the short exit
because we don't have a short entry so
this will not have any effect on the
strategy now and now basically we are
using the hook so we don't care if
yesterday was a down day or an up day it
doesn't matter we only care that today's
open is above previous day high and the
close below previous day close so let's
run it okay so this is much better 62
trades it's still not a lot of Trades
and you know the performance is nothing
to write home about even if we add a
filter that's already going to go down
probably to 30 trades so it's not usable
I mean this Hook is not usable at least
on the S&P 500 but you already probably
figured out that flipping this pattern
should produce very good results on the
S&P 500 so if we flip it which is the
bear hook so the bear hook usually is
used for short strategies but of course
we can use it here for long strategies
so this is what it's going to look like
we have a down day then the open lower
than the previous low the close higher
than the previous close and then we buy
with a stop order Above This high and
also the range is smaller than this
range and here is the pattern built so
the open is lower than the previous low
so this open lower than the previous low
the close is higher than the previous
close so this close higher than this
close
and then the range is smaller than this
and then yesterday this one the close is
lower than the open again I have the
same data the S&P 500 E mini Futures
using trade station with one contract
fixed and no slippage and
commission and as expected the pattern
is profitable but again very low number
of Trades so just like we did before
let's let me get rid of the yesterday
condition that's being down day and let
me get rid of the bar range so we are
just looking at the hook basically we
just want the open below yesterday's low
the close above yesterday's close and
then we enter with a stop order so 24
trades let's see if we can beat that and
much much better now still the pattern
looks horrible here but we have more
trades at least I'm happy with more
trades because I can always add a filter
to enhance this so this one looks like a
good filter the close lower than the
average close of 10 bars so we get 42
trades and
3.93 return to draw down ratio and we
get rid of this uh huge draw down in the
beginning now I didn't test any filters
this is just a simple one I just wanted
to show you that once you have a lot of
Trades it's a lot easier to filter
trades the problem is always lower
number of Trades now the beauty of
strategy Quant X is you can take this
pattern that we just built and make it
as a custom block once it's a custom
block you can use it in Builder to
automate building strategies using this
pattern as an entry or exit or a filter
for other strategy if you like this
video you will love the next one
[Music]
