it is very important when you are
building a strategy to use the right
style for the right instrument and the
right filter today I will discuss our
own indicator and how you can use it as
a signal to enter an exit and a strategy
or as a filter for other signals Arun
indicator is used to identify Trend
changes in the price of an asset and
this is the formula for our own
indicator so it consists of two
indicators one is the Arun up and the
other is our own down and here is a
representation of how that looks like so
the green line is the Arun up and the
red line is the Arun down
and that is what we are measuring in
this case I have our own with a look
back of 20 bars so when the value of the
green indicator which is Arun up at 100
that means the current High
is the highest high in the last 20 bars
and when it is zero that means the
highest high in the past 20 bars
happened 20 bars ago same goes for the
red indicator which is the Rune down so
when the value is 100 that means the
current low is the lowest in the past 20
bars and when the value is zero that
means the lowest low happened 20 bars
ago and then we have the our own
oscillator and basically the oscillator
is taking the Arun up and deducting our
own down so it's the green minus thread
and you get this value so while the Arun
up and down hover between 0 and 100 the
Arun oscillator hover between minus 100
to plus 100 and the zero line represents
the cross so whenever the green the Arun
up goes above the red which is around
down then we go up of zero and the
opposite is true so just like the DMI
plus and the Mi minus with the adx I
don't indicator is kind of the same
thing we are measuring the trend and the
strength of the trend and we do that by
either using both the Arun up and down
or using the oscillator only now I want
to bring something important to your
attention each platform they have their
own programming language and they
program their own indicator and there
are some slight changes between a
platform and another and that's happened
a lot in strategic One X because
strategic One X usually they do their
own indicators and they do their own
calculations and then you need to take
that strategy into another platform and
the most common questions I get in my
community and in my algo trading master
class is how to match the these
strategies that are built in strategy
context and to another platform and the
reason that happens and will always be
there
is because of the following like I
showed you from the equation I run up
and around down should go between 0 and
100 because from this equation if the
current high is happening now that means
it's zero bar so 25 minus 0 is 25
divided by 25 is 1 multiplied by 100
that's 100 and if the highest high
happened 25 periods ago
that means 25 minus 25 is 0 divided by
25 is 0 multiplied by 100 is zero so
from this equation the indicator should
hover between 0 and 100. let's check
this is the red one so you can see the
value is 100 but the lowest is 5. same
thing for the green this is our own up
you see the value is 100 but the lowest
value is 5. and this is our own
indicator and oscillator in multi-charge
so again it's the same thing as 20 bar
period look back and if we see it so
this is the maximum our own is 100 and
if we look at the lowest value it's five
again for the R1 up the green maximum
value is 100 lowest value is 5. so in
this case
these two indicators match
but they don't match the equation and
now let's go one step further the
oscillator like I mentioned is Arun up
minus arunda
so theoretically it should go between
-100 2 plus 100.
so here if I check the value here 85
this is 100 that's the maximum
if I look the lowest this is -100 which
is true
but since this always goes to five
then the oscillator should not go to
-100 it should go to -95 only it
shouldn't reach minus 100 okay so we
find something wrong here or something
that doesn't match and if I go to
multi-charge and use the oscillator you
can see the maximum oscillator value
here
is 95
5
95 95 so I checked all of them the highs
are always 95 and the lows are always
minus 90. so they never reach 100 or
minus one so although these are small
discrepancies between the indicator and
the oscillator on the same platform or
between both different platforms these
will usually result in your strategy
having a different Behavior so if you
run it on multi-charge it might produce
300 trades with 100 000 profits and if
you run it in trading view you might get
50 trades 80 000 profit so sometimes the
strategies will behave totally different
in each platform although you're using
the same strategy and sometimes they
have a little bit of difference but
rarely they match exactly 100 percent
and the reason is what I showed you
because there are small discrepancies in
the calculations of these in indicate
something else I want to show you the
above zero cross that means the Arun up
is above around
and if we go the last three so this one
happened on May 18th
and then this one happened
on March 31st and this one happened
on January 13th and if we check trading
view so this one happened
May 18th which is correct and this one
happened March 30th
so in multi-chart it was March 31st so
that's one day discrepancy
and then this one happened January 18th
and in multi-charge it happened on
January 13th so that's five days
discrepancy so the further back I go the
more discrepancies you will find and of
course again that will affect the same
logic for the strategy when built in
trading View and multichoice and of
course that applies to strategic
contacts and trade station and
metatrader 4. so then what's the
solution the solution is always to stick
to one platform or if you are using two
platforms for example I develop
strategies using strategy Quant X and
then move them to tradestation or
multi-charge in that case multi-charge
or trade station have the final say it
doesn't matter what strategy X says that
the strategy profit or number of trades
or the average trade that all is good in
strategy context but the final say comes
from the results in your trading
platform so here is a strategy using the
Arun indicator as a signal to enter and
to exit
so I'm using the our own indicator of a
look back of 20 so this is the look back
and then I have three variables so
variable one is when we go above this
value so this value is zero that means
whenever we are above zero we will enter
long
we will exit with two levels it's either
the our own indicator are at 75
or once we enter we drop to 10 then we
also so the 10 acts as a stop loss and
the 75 level act as a profit Target and
this is the return for the longest 85
and if I do the short separately let me
file and we see the short alone loses
money and now if I do the long and short
because now the overlap we can see we
make less money and we lose more here so
all in all as a signal it's not good
but that's the default and like I told
you default is not always good so let me
optimize to find
uh better settings so this is the entry
level which is zero I will optimize
between 0 and 20. the exit level
optimized between 50 and 90. top level
optimize 0 to 25 and the look back
between 10 and 30. and we are using long
and short short usually is very
difficult on the S P 500 but let's see
what we get we have almost 3 000
combinations
so sorting by the average trade above
100 and that's the indicator that I use
for the S P 500 so out of almost 3 000
strategies we have
387. so that's almost 13 profitable
strategies and it indicates that we can
use this indicator as a signal so this
looks in a stable region and if we
double click on it
let's see what we get
so this is long and short again short
still losing as expected on the S P 500
maximum drawdown we have is 48 on
average we're making 242 so the Longs
are really good of 410 dollars on
average and of course we're losing in on
the shorts now remember you can still
pick something that works both ways so
if I go to the top performing strategy
then we can see that we do make money
short and long of course now the average
is very low and most likely this is an
overfit strategy so let's go back to the
strategy we picked in the beginning and
this is much more reasonable of course I
can cancel the shorts so this is how it
looks like it's almost 27 drawdown
around fifty thousand dollars but
remember you can use the indicator also
as a filter which I think is much better
way to use this indicator because most
robust filters are either direction or
volatility in this case this is a
direction filter for any strategy and of
course the best way to use it is on the
RSI too why do I always use the RSI 2 is
because the RSI 2 now is like a standard
on at least this channel because I
featured the strategy in many videos so
we already know exactly how the strategy
behaves and it's very easy to tell now
if this filter is good or not so now
this is the plain vanilla RSI strategy
and if we look at it it's making 140
losing on the short side this is long
and short and if we look at the trade
analysis we the Longs are making 642
which is really good the shorts are
losing 20 on average this is how the
curves looks like but probably here
around 50 drawdown that is 81 000 so now
I kept the RSI 2 strategy entries which
is RSI 2 below 25 we go along above 75
we go short and I just added the Arun
indicator and we will optimize to see
the filter behavior on the strategy and
these are the results and I filtered all
strategies with an average trade below
100 and we have 25 59 that's very high I
mean almost 90 percent of the strategies
are making above 100 which expected
because the strategy originally is very
good but of course we want to enhance
the strategy by reducing the drawdown
and of course I can see here this is
sorting by the top average trade look at
these remember the original strategy
made 140
000 with a drawdown of 81 000 and of
course it was losing on the short side
now here if I sort by maximum entry
drawdown look the maximum is 65 and of
course the lowest one is twenty two
thousand dollars but of course if I want
to sword let's sort by custom Fitness
this is the return to draw down and this
is the best which is making more money
with almost quarter of the drawdown and
all these using 80 and 2520 so this is
very stable area the 80 exit level the
stop level between 20 and 25 and then
all these are 18 if and all the entry
levels are the same producing basically
the same mod I'll pick something in the
middle let me pick this one and see the
shape of the Curve
so now we're making 150 that's more
money entry day drawdown is 28 so
remember it was 85. but the most
important part to check here now is that
the short trades are profitable that is
huge and if we look at it it's not only
profitable it's really good average
trade look at this the average trade is
four hundred dollars it's matching the
average rate of the long side also it's
not few trades it's 129 trades compared
to 200 on the long side so this is a
huge Improvement to an already robust
strategy by using a simple filter and
picking a stable area
and the shape of the curve now looks
much better than before remember we had
a huge crater before with the RSI
strategy and now this one they are all
below uh 20 the drawdown and of course
we know it's only 28 000 now that
doesn't mean that you should drop all
other RSI 2 strategies and pick this one
it is just this one although it's really
good but it's producing a different
Equity curve than other rsi2 strategies
so even by changing only the filter you
can get a different kind of result from
the same strategy and if you combine
those in a portfolio then you'll smooth
out your Equity curve of the same
strategy on the same instrument which is
of course huge and that's one of the key
Concepts that I push on this channel
which is to always diversify your
portfolio through style through time
frame through side and then worry about
the instrument because only by changing
simple things on the same strategy you
get different results to watch more RSI
2 strategy watch this video and I will
see you
foreign
[Music]
