are you missing out on the hidden
signals in the stock market what if I
told you that there is a single pattern
that shows the sentiment and the S&P 500
Index intrigued stay tuned as I decode
the dogee pattern secrets and I'll show
you how easy it is to build long and
short strategies around it hello
everyone my name is Ali Casey and you
are watching stat Oasis Channel let's
start with the basic what is a dogey
pattern think of a Candlestick where the
open and the cloes are very near to each
other they are forming a cross-like
shape that is a dogey pattern let me
show you on the Whiteboard these are
multiple shapes of the dogey pattern
like I mentioned the body which is the
close and the open they are very close
to each other which leaves a wick up and
a wick down so depending on where this
body cloes we have different names so
this is a common doy this is long legged
dragonfly and then there are you know
Morning Star and shooting star and there
are many names basically it's an
indecision pattern by the way DOI in
Japanese means a mistake so this pattern
means a mistake happened in the market
like you saw there are different ways to
represent this pattern and we need to
test those different patterns to see if
we have an edge in this pattern once we
find an edge then we can build a
strategy around in order to test the
different formation of this pattern I
designed this function we will have a
number for the ratio basically I am
measuring the body which is the open
minus the close compared to the whole
range so that will give us a ratio also
the function will check if the position
in the bottom third in the middle thirdd
or in the top third so basically we're
measuring if this is is happening here
or in the middle or at the bottom and
also we are measuring how big is this so
that way we can have all the types of
patterns we like so just remember
position one is at the bottom position
three is at the top two is in the middle
and position zero that means we don't
care where this body will sit and that's
how we will test here is a chart of the
S&P 500 futures daily session and we
will test long and short separately and
this is our optimization so BLS which
doesn't stand for a type of meat
sandwich it's actually long short or
both so one is short two is long so
that's two steps and then we have our
position so zero that means uh it
doesn't matter where it Clos and then 1
to three is bottom middle and top and
then the ratio so 0 to 30 zero is the
close the same as the open and then 30
that means close minus the open that's
body is 30% of the whole range so we'll
do that in step of five in total we have
56
combinations so we test that and let's
look so one is short and let's look at
our data so these are positive and
that's good but then look at this jump
this is the close equal to the open zero
that's why we have only six trades
because it doesn't happen that often and
then five all the way to 30 all of them
are profitable not only that the average
trade is huge and also there is a clear
correlation between the body and the
average trade look at this when the
close equal to the open we have
$390 average trade and then when we
increase the ratio the the average trade
starts to go down all the way to 72 and
79 so there is a correlation when the
body
increase the average trade goes down so
15 is very stable area which is in
between so we get the middle of the
number of Trades and the middle of the
average trade so let's keep that in mind
now if we go down further if we look at
the position two interestingly all of
them are losing which means means that
if we go long when the position is in
the middle theoretically we should be
making money because it's going to be
the opposite and then if we look at uh
position
three uh there is no clear pattern so we
drop it so first of all we have when we
are
shorting we want the body doesn't matter
the ratio we want it to be at the bottom
let's go now to going long so this one
is going long so zero it's everywhere
and we are losing money and then two and
one also we are losing money and as
expected two and two it's making money
because it's the opposite of the pattern
we saw when we are
shorting and we see all of them making
money but now we don't see that
correlation between the body and the
average trade so zero we're making
$53 and 30 we are making
$20 but still 15 looks the best so
either way the body when it's 15 it's
good for both long and short so that
means this body ratio the close minus
open should be 15% of the whole range
and then when we are shorting we are
looking for the body to be in position
one and when we are going long we're
looking for the body to be in the middle
which is very interesting because
normally you would not figure that out
and that's why we test I didn't mention
that the exit here is always end of day
so to find an edge we need to normalize
everything to see if there is an edge or
not and in this case the exit is always
end of day and we saw clearly that when
the body close at the bottom it's good
for short when it's in the middle it's
good for Longs and this is not a fluke
and that's always the case with all the
patterns you need to find the edge first
because the edge usually it's not a
fluke usually it's there for whatever
reason I don't know the reason and again
I don't care as long as statistically I
can prove it's there and so this is a
sample of the strategy that we enter
when there is a dodgy pattern in the
middle we enter the next day and we exit
at the end of the day again doy pattern
in the middle we enter next day we exit
end of day by the way look at this it
doesn't look like it's in the middle but
if we divide the whole range in three
sections this will be in the middle
section okay now that we know where the
edge is let's start testing exit
strategies so here I'm testing the short
remember the position for the short was
one and we decided that 15 is a stable
ratio for the body to range ratio so the
exits I have four types zero is exiting
end of day that's the original Edge
strategy one is exit next day two is
exiting when the RSI 2 is below 20 and
three is exiting when the close is lower
than the previous close now these are
not over optimized values you can use
these exit in any short-term strategy
short-term strategies we are looking to
exit within one two 3 days so close
lower than the close that confirms our
direction that we went short and it is
so we need to exit exit because that
doesn't last long RSI 2 is also very
shortterm measurement of where the price
is so again when it goes below 20 that
means most likely the close is lower
than the close or at least we gap down
and now the close is lower than the
previous close and then the next day
that means we're only holding for one
day so those will confirm our Edge and
will also give us better results because
now we are holding more than one day and
most likely we are capturing more uh
money theoretically so let's test and
see so this is very simple we have four
combinations and if we test them we get
the following results so zero remember
our original strategy average trade is
170 draw down is 13 return to draw down
is 173 we definitely have one exit which
is enhancing our return to draw down
enhancing our uh win percent enhancing
our average trade making making more
money with a little bit less draw down
so definitely enhancing all metrics
that's really good which is what it's
number three and remember number three
is the Clos lower than the previous
close now like I told you this pattern
is not optimized in fact I will show you
the optimized version is if you go the
high is lower than the previous High
which is again confirming our Direction
so this is the strategy with the close
lower than the previous close exit and
now if I run the high lower than the
previous High look at the results we
make 45,000 now with 11,000 draw down
which increased our return to draw down
to four so it's definitely much better
as you can see is the close or high or
the low lower than the previous low they
will all work and they're not over
optimized basically you're looking for a
way to confirm the direction of the
trade the expected direction of the
trade we are expecting we are shorting
we're expecting the price to go down so
if we get any of that confirmation then
we should use it to exit because those
pattern will not last long they are very
shortterm patterns now let's test the
long side so remember the long side is
two and the position is in the middle
that's also two and we agreed to keep
the ratio at 15 and we will test again
for Exit Zero it's exiting the same day
that's our original Edge and we will
test the other three exits and for long
they will be exit next day and now we're
looking for the RSI 2 above 80 and the
close higher than the previous close
basically it's the opposite of the short
so again we have four combinations and
let's
see so this is our original strategy
23,000 and now all the exits make better
stats so we enhance the profitability
this one is 74 that's a h huge increase
and return to draw down we go from under
two to above six again that's huge and
you can see it here we're making 130 and
the draw down is 20 also number three is
making really good money 90 and 14 and
very close return to draw down so this
is where the close is higher than the
previous close but this is the RSI so
let me pick the RSI and let's see how
this looks like so these are the trades
we have a dogey in the middle we go
along next day and we exit when the RSI
is above 80 again here we exit above 80
now the problem with waiting for a
pattern to exit is it might take too
long well what if the RSI above 80
doesn't hit for two months which could
happen then you will face usually a huge
draw down so you complement that usually
with a fixed number of bars exit or
maybe a a big stop loss because I'm not
fan of stop losses they usually hurt the
performance but a fixed number of bars
is really good because let's say on
average our trade is 2 three days so
maybe you know if you hold for maximum
10 days and if the RSI doesn't hit then
we exit either way so now I implemented
long and short in the same strategy and
I added the 10 bar exit just in case our
RSI or the close is lower than the
previous close doesn't hit and let's
look at our results first of all our net
profit is about 160,000 no commission
and slippage we have 8 to1 return to
draw down ratio before you jump and be
upset I don't use commission slippage to
test the strategy for its Edge we can
easily incorporate commission slippage
then just to let you know for the S&P
500 commission slippage is about uh $35
and you can see our average trade here
the lowest is 300 so we are more than uh
six times our commission and slippies
okay so in total we have about 400
trades that's really good on average
$400 again that is really good maximum
consecutive winners
22 and maximum consecutive losers three
that is amazing to say the least and
let's look at our periodical analysis so
this is the annual period analysis
since 2007 the data 2009 is a loss and
let's say 2018 is
scratch and the rest are doing very very
well we're averaging 20 plus trades
that's almost two trades per month and
finally let's look at the curve uh I
mean we can tell because we have only
one losing year and it's a very very
good looking curve with a little bit of
throw downs and we can see actually the
draw down in dollars so here it's about
11,000 here is about 18,000 and
overall we are 23% only in the market
that's also really good because that
means you are not exposed to Market
gation all the time also you can use
this capital on other strategies that
are not correlated with this one
congratulations you just unlock the
secrets to the dogey pattern by learning
the proper way to find edges in any
Market test them and then build
strategies around them you are arming
yourself with the best weapons to be the
best Trader in the market if you enjoyed
today's video make sure to like And
subscribe share the video and to learn
more tips and tricks watch this video
and I will see you
[Music]
there
[Music]
