this strategy made over
$320,000 over the past 15 years and
$35,000 so far this year with a win rate
of above 83% to build robust strategies
like these you need good filters good
filters usually come from volatility and
Direction they are not the only ones but
they are the major ones today's video is
about a direction filter the indicator
you see at the bottom is the trend
intensity index don't worry about the
for the indicator or for the strategy
that we are going to build it will be
available in stasis Community which you
can join for free to meet other Traders
the indicator has a default look back of
60 and a default thresholds of 0 and 20
so the look back of 60 is the moving
average and then we are calculating the
difference between the close and the
moving average and we add all these up
over the past 60 bars which is the look
back period then we divide divided by
the total sum so we get an oscillator
that hovers between 0 and 100 and when
we are over the 80% threshold that means
we are in a long Trend and when we are
below 20 threshold we are in a short
Trend the indicator can be used as a
filter for other signals because it's a
trend filter but also we can use it to
generate signals for entry and exit and
that is what we are going to do in this
video now because I'm trading the S&P
500 and the S&P 500 is a Me reverting
instrument we need to shorten the look
back period so we make the oscillator
oscillates a lot to get more signals in
so by shortening the length of the
indicator here the period is four
instead of 60 you can see now it
resembles the RSI 2 which is this one
now although there are differences in
the magnitude but basically the Peaks
and the troughs usually matching almost
I would say with 90 95% uh correlation
and now we're looking at these two
charts of the S&P 500 future since 2006
on the left I have the trend intensity
index as our signal generator so on the
indicator below a threshold we will go
long and when the indicator above the
above threshold we will exit and on the
right here I'm using the RSI 2 strategy
is the default strategy RSI 2 below 30
we go long above 70 we exit and we have
the 200 day moving average as a filter
and this is the comparison between both
this is our rsi2 strategy making
$196,000 with 39,000 uh draw down and
our Trend intensity index used as a mean
reversion indicator the strategy is
making 166 with a draw down of 47 now
obviously this the RSI 2 beats this
strategy but here is an interesting
stats so if we look at the number of
Trades this is almost 400 trades
remember I'm not including commission
slippage because the average trade is
too big so we are not worrying about it
but this is only 60 trades so 60 trades
but each trade is more than five times
the average trade of the RSI 2 so while
they look the same the numbers tell a
different story also the percent of win
here is 7 4% while here is the
82% so while we are making less money
not a lot less but we are making less
money and higher draw down but we are
making it with a lot less trades and a
higher win rate now that also comes with
a caveat here we are staying on average
about a week and here on average about
four weeks and that's why we have the
bigger draw down in the trend intensity
index still the should not deter you
from using this indicator because we are
always looking for more variety in our
Equity curve even if both strategies are
using the same mechanism now we are
adding more variety so the one on the
left is the trend intensity indicator
used as a meere reversion entry and exit
on the right I extended the look back
period to 16 and now we are going to use
this as a trend following indicator
meaning when it is above the threshold
we go long and when it goes below we
exit and now let's look at our
performance now with using the indicator
as a trend following indicator we almost
achiev the same numbers so the profit is
163,000 here is 166 maximum draw down is
44,000 here is
47,000 the number of Trades here is 60
here is 85 so that's a significant
enhancement in the number of Trades of
course that come with the sacrifice of
lower win percent which is totally
acceptable for Trend following in fact
if anything this is a huge wi% for a
trend following strategy because usually
Trend following strategies are in the 30
looking at the equity curve we can see
they are totally different yes both of
them are going up yes both of them are
making almost same amount of money but
this is a lot sharier which is expected
for a trend following strategy and this
is a lot smoother both of them making
the biggest throw down in coid crisis
now this is an extremely plus point for
this indicator because using the same
indicator as a trend following signal
generator or a mirr version signal
generator is really an indication of the
robustness of this indicator that you
can use it in many situation and
remember the original Target of this
indicator is to be used as a filter so
we did not go into filter so you can use
this indicator in three way ways the
long-term Trend following signal
generator shortterm me version signal
generator and as a filter for other
strategy but now that we have generated
two separate strategies from this
indicator using totally different
fundamental reason one is going with the
trend one is going against the trend
theoretically we can combine those two
strategies on the same instrument and we
should get better numbers so here I did
an optimization for both strategies on
the S&P 500 you can see this is strategy
one and this is strategy two so I
optimize the lookback period the
overbought and the oversold with total
number of optimizations of
345,000 strategy so first thing if we
sort by net profit we can see that all
strategies are profitable more than
329,000
strategy of course this doesn't cut it
because it's 9,000 net profit fit and no
commission no slippage so this is a
losing strategy actually so if I filter
the strategies that are making at least
$150,000 we still have over
$245,000 strategies that are profitable
and if I sort by return to draw down
this is the best strategy so it's making
212 and losing 66 now while I did this
optimization correctly and I'm choosing
methodically still this is not a robust
workflow which is extremely important to
build robust strategy and that's why I
dedicated a full module on robustness
testing in my algo trading Master Class
if I pick this one the
$324,000 so on the left here we have our
me reversion strategy on the right here
we have our Trend following strategy and
here in the middle we have both
strategies combined first thing I want
to bring your attention to is the
correlation so although we are are
trading on the S&P 500 and although the
trend following is holding for more than
20 days we are looking at the
correlation of 31 on The Daily and 27 on
the weekly that is a big plus because
that means we are not always trading two
contracts at the same time so 30% of the
time we will hold two contracts but 70%
of the time we are holding one contract
only so now we have
A2 trades with a 63% win rate on average
making
$2,000 and if we look at our periodical
returns we lose 5 years since 2006 and
in 2023 we are making $388,000 in six
trades with an average of $6,000 per
trade 83% win rate this is our curve we
dip here in
2022 and we just made it all back with
new highs in 2023 by learning how to
test properly you can build strategies
by exploiting edges that most other
Traders cannot find mixing two type of
strategies using the same indicator
usually is a good way to diversify your
portfolio to learn more strategies like
these watch this video and I will see
you
[Music]
there
y
