if you want to come up with your own
entries for a strategy then that is a
difficult proposal you might do
meditation read a book go on Forum watch
YouTube but the reality is you need to
have a systemized way to build strategy
now of course you can use a data mining
package like strategy context but if you
want to Target a certain type of
instrument or a certain type of strategy
then you need to come up with a
enter a trade I already did a video
about the most effective exits for a
strategy and you can watch that over
here today we will do the most effective
entries so
so right in this this is the S P 500
futures data since 2006 and our first
entry will be an indicator I am using in
this example the KCC percent indicator
you can watch the video dedicated to
this indicator in the description or in
the corner this indicator measures the
pullback it's like the RSI but it does
its calculation in a different way and
here I am using the look back of 4
smoothing of three and if we are below
25 we will buy it in order to test the
different types of entries we need to
fix the exit type so of course we have
many exit types in this case I'm using
the bar since entry and the number here
I'm using seven bars so if you're on a
trade it doesn't matter if we are up if
we are down there is no stop loss no
profit Target we will exit after 7 bars
and let's look at our performance so
this is how it looks like and to compare
we will look always at the total trades
so 234 trades and 63 win rate we're
making 340 dollars and this is another
type of Entry as an indicator if the
average of 60 bars greater than the
average of 120 bahts
now remember if you leave this alone
there will be very few trades but
because we have the seven day exit then
again we have 341 trades so on average
we're making 265
with 65 percent win rate of course I
cannot do all type of indicators here
because you can imagine you can at least
have a hundred indicators and each
indicator has different varieties so the
variety is here you can write a book
about entries second type of Entry is
the price indicator intersection here we
will use our price either the close or
the average close or the open the hide
law any part of our current price we use
it when it intersects with an indicator
so those indicators will be the one that
is in the same space as the charge or
moving average Bollinger band kelpner
bands Fibonacci anything that interacts
with the price we can use so in this
case I'm using if the close crosses
above the average of five bucks so if we
compile this
we have 306 trades 57 57 win rate and
130 dollars lost on average now I'm
using the S P 500 so of course it makes
sense to use this below because this is
the newer version instrument
and like I estimated so we have 62 one
right now with an average of 291 rates
another example is if the close crosses
below a Bollinger band and again we can
compile this we have 86 trades with 365
on average
and 64 when percent again the varieties
here are endless because out of the 100
indicators let's say in your platform
half of them will be with the price and
you can use any variations of those with
the intersection of the clause or the
average clause or the a close plus high
low divided by three you can see there
are millions of variations that you can
do out of those again a whole book can
be written on twice plus the indicators
entry type number three is a price level
this is when we know exactly where we
want to enter so we don't care about
indicators we don't care about patterns
we know exactly where we want in this
case I put this example so if the close
of yesterday minus the average true
range times 1.2 this is a multiplier so
basically we are looking if today price
go below yesterday's close and the
distance is 1.2 times the average true
range we will enter to go along and if
we compile this
so we have 268 trades using this
methodology 60 win rate on average
making
142 dollars per trade this type of Entry
usually is used either for Mirror
version or breakout without any
indicators because you can always add
some distance from some initial point
that happened yesterday this initial
Point could be a moving average could be
Bollinger Bands could be closed but
usually an initial starting point and
then you add some distance up or down to
either go long or go short entry number
four is a pattern so in this case I have
this pattern I am counting if the close
lower than the previous close and then
within five bars if I have three or more
then I will enter the trade so basically
I'm looking for a pullback but I am
giving some leeway for this pullback so
I'm not looking for exactly three bars
in a row down of course you can do that
it's also pattern but I am looking for a
leeway which is in five bars if I have
three of them are pulling down then I
will enter that right and if we compile
this
we see that this happens actually a lot
on the SMP and that's why it's a mirror
version instrument look at this 326
times this pattern happens and 355
dollars on average the second example is
I am looking for an engulfing bot so
basically if today is closed lower than
the open that means we have a down day
and it's also an engulfing bar then we
will enter a trade and this engulfing
bar have been 176 times the wind percent
is 60 and the average trade is 485. this
like worth a lot
so you can see here this is the pattern
so it's engulfing because the high is
higher than the previous high low
previous than previous low and it's a
down day same thing here this is an
engulfing bar so we enter next part this
is an engulfing bar we enter next bar
and this is an engulfing bar we enter
next bar and so on and so forth but it's
very interesting to see that a simple
pattern generates this type of profit
entry number five is a trend following
entry we can use many indicators to
achieve Trend following
we can actually use geltner channels we
can use in this case the linear
regression we can use the highest high
and so on and so forth so linear
regression if it's moving up then we
enter a trade and in this case of course
we will have less Trace but because
we're exiting remember always after
seven bars so that's why we have too
many entries and even then the profit
the 1 percent 61 but of course the
average trade is too low entry type
number six is the opposite of trend
following which is mean reversion of
course you can achieve mere version in
literally hundreds of ways here I have
the close lower than the close of three
bars ago we compile this
now this is on the es we know it's going
to work
364 trades 60 would rate 382 and of
course we can use the RSI
if we compile this
it's 287 dollars on average 61 trades
and 285 so you can see that the close
lower than the previous close is much
better than the indicator that's
measuring that so again you can achieve
the mirror version many many ways entry
type number seven is a momentum again
with momentum there are millions ways to
achieve this and here I have two
examples so the first one is the close
higher than the previous clause in this
case I put 10 bars so the Clause is
higher than 10 bars ago then we will
enter a trade remember we're always
exiting after seven bars so we have 371
trades 217 dollars on average and if we
try this indicator again I'm looking for
momentum up so if the momentum of 50
higher than the momentum of 100 again we
can do that that's 177 trades 200 on
average and of course you can use the
momentum itself so we can do momentum
higher than the momentum of previous bar
and again it's 62 percent win rate 367
dollars 422 trades now each instrument
has a different seasonal pattern some
have really prominent seasonal patterns
and some just nothing happening I did a
video about the copper and you can watch
that here where I use this pattern to
build a strategy really profitable
strategy so we can use any patterns that
exist so this you cannot force it the
pattern either exists or it doesn't so
in this case I'm using if the day of the
week is Friday that means if today's
Friday I will buy Monday this is the S P
500 so this pattern for example if it
works it works here only it might work
on other instruments we don't know we
have to test but in any case so this is
using a daily pattern which is Monday is
up so let's test
so we have 836 Mondays in this period
that I'm testing and 53 win rate 85 on
average now this is not a good pattern
this is the only testing because I don't
want to change the instrument because
remember this is holding overnight so
most likely all this 85 dollars coming
from holding overnight the most
effective entry type is layering so just
like in the exits where we layer some
exits together we can layer entries and
this is very effective and some types of
entries they work really well when they
are layered for example if you layer the
price level with an indicator those work
really well because now the indicator is
telling you that it's a good time to
enter you're also entering at a price
level that's favorable to you so now I
layered an indicator with a price level
in this case we will buy next bar if the
price is 1.2 times the average true
range below the but only when the RSI 2
is below 25 so we're layering an
indicator with a price level and let's
compile this
so 209 trades 65 profitable and 362
dollars on average so you can easily see
how it is simple to systemize your
workflow of building strategy you have
methods for entries method for exit and
I will do another video on filters and
then you have the full recipe for any
strategy one to learn more watch this
video and I will see you there
[Music]
thank you
[Music]
