have you ever wondered how to build a
strategy that shorts stocks if so you
are in luck because in this video I will
show you a step by step on how to build
a strategy that short the Russell 2000
by pinpointing the top three stocks
right for short selling first of all
let's define Short Selling Short Selling
it's a method to sell a stock and then
buy it at a lower price basically a
stock went too high
and you expect it to go down so you sell
it first and then you buy it and the way
to do this in the stock market you need
to borrow the stock from someone so
someone who owns the stock shares they
give you that stock so basically you
borrow it through the broker it's all
automated anyway but that's the
methodology you borrow the stock and
then you buy it back cheaper and you
return it to the owner and the owner
basically collects some interest on this
B growing and you'll collect the
difference between the buy and sell now
Short Selling in general is difficult
because like I mentioned you need to
borrow the stocks and not all stocks are
available to borrow but you know S&P 500
stocks are definitely available all the
time to be borrowed but for example when
you get like the GameStop uh stock
usually it will be harder to borrow
because a lot of people wanting the same
thing and there is a finite uh number
number of shares to be borrowed still
the concept applies and you can apply
the same concept that we are doing today
on any stock any currency any crypto any
Futures it's the same thing I am just
showing you how to do it and then you
can apply it on any asset class the
method that I'm teaching you today
involves ranking and ranking is a really
powerful method to pick the top anything
to either buy or show or sell now
literally a year ago this was not
available to retail Traders I mean it
was available but either through python
platform some programming or stitching
uh multiple platforms together about a
year ago strategy quantex launch algo
Cloud where you can do this All
algorithmically without any programming
knowledge and also you can trade the
same strategy that you're going to test
through a broker again without any prog
pramming knowledge if you are new to
strategy quantex it is a platform that
let you build strategies algorithmically
without any programming knowledge
basically you Shuffle some blocks inside
Strat Quant x with a set of criterias
and you get a strategy and you can do
robustness testing on that strategy and
then you can export that strategy to a
platform to be traded however in this
case with the stock ranking no need to
export the strategy you can trade that
strategy immediately through alpaka or
Interactive Broker and you execute the
same strategy that you built with a user
interface so here we are in strategy
Quant X I'm using the latest version
currently which is 1381
1837 and if you go to algo Wizard and
click on new strategy you have multiple
options and we are interested in this
one stock picker strategy algor do IO
Cloud that means the strategy that you
build here can be exported to algo cloud
and you can trade it there without any
modification basically it's the same
code same everything no need to worry
about mismatch it will be connected to
your account at the broker automatically
and execute the strategy so let's select
this one and now we get this interface
which is long rules short rules and the
most important one is the position
ranking and we'll get to that in a
second so today we are building a
strategy on the short side so we will
pick the short side so here we have this
bar chart and basically every bar has to
be stamped at the close or at the open
now the stock market Stamps every bar
with the close so the exchange usually
stamp the close so let's say if this bar
if it's 9 to 10 then this bar will carry
10 as the time because it's stamping the
close so let's say we are on this bar if
I say close lower than the open that
means the shift is
zero then I will be talking about this
bar because when the bar close I will
have the close and the
open but if I am am here and I say close
one bar
ago lower than the open one bar ago then
that means I am talking about the
previous bar because again everything
stamp at the close and this is achieved
in strategy Quant x stock picker engine
using this one bar before open so bar
before open
means that I am talking on the bar that
just closed so if I say close lower than
SMA 200 I am talking at the current bar
that is just closed now bar open is a
couple of minutes after the current bar
is open so let's say we are here this
bar is closed and this bar is closed and
now the current bar just open and let's
say this is our range we just open so
after a couple of minutes this is on bar
open that means I can for example use
the open in my calculation let's say I'm
doing the moving average based on the on
the open so if I say the
SMA of the
open for the past 20
bars and the shift is zero that means I
am on this bar because I already know
the open but I don't know the low the
high and the close so on bar open you
only know the open and finally on bar
close this is a couple of minutes before
the close of the
bar so let's say if I'm saying if I have
a position and I will say sell at
close that means
before this bar close I will sell right
at the end like 2
minutes
before the actual
close so the way I recommend to use the
algo Cloud execution bars is as follows
always use before bar open to calculate
so your SMA your Ballinger bands your
clothes greater than whatever any
condition you want to calculate you will
use bar before open because then you are
waiting for the bar to close and you
perform your calculation and when you
issue the order that means it will go
for the next day and wait for the bar to
open and execute but all your close you
can now choose either before bar open or
on bar close close usually on bar close
is the better option so that means let's
say if the RSI 2 greater than
75 we are selling at close that means
before the bar close we will check the
RSI value and if it is above
75 I will sell because we are assuming
that in couple of minutes nothing will
change whatever prices we have will stay
about the same value so basically we
want to use on bar close for our close
orders and before bar open for all our
calculations and when we are using
before bar open we are using the shift
zero so that means we are working on the
current closed bar also on bar close we
are using shift zero because we are
assuming that that the bar closed
already although we are executing our
order 2 minutes before the bar closed
basically what this is doing is if you
want to issue an order at the close
let's say you're using TR session or
multicharts you are actually using the
exact same methodology that s sqx did
which is you have to set your session to
close before the actual Market close so
in this case sqx did very well but I
don't know why they chose the other one
which is before bar open I don't get
that it's just confusing in any case
that's what we are using in all our
strategy so before we start we come here
entry triggered at on bar open we need
to change this to before bar open and
then exit trigger at on bar open we
change this to on bar close so this is
good all is done now we are going to
build our strategy okay now we come to
selecting our stocks for short so we
want to pinpoint which stocks are right
for shorting to short them so first of
all we need to pick a universe now the
US market has I don't know maybe 15,000
stocks not all of them are tradable and
definitely not all of them are shortable
because they're not available to borrow
so we need to be able to short only
liquid stocks so some filtering has to
happen and let me show you how we can do
this so for example here we are in Yahoo
stock screener in United States there
are
14,132 stocks obviously like I mentioned
not all of these stocks are shortable or
even if you want to buy them because
they are not liquid so the slippage will
be huge so the Russell 2000 is all uh
small cap so let's pick small cap and
now we are down to
8,821 okay now also we don't want to
short small stocks because these can be
easily short squeezed basically the
market can be manipulated very easy
because there's not a lot of uh
liquidity in those shares and usually
the liquidity vanishes when when the
price goes down so A good rule of thumb
is to filter stocks above
$10 so let's go with price end of
day and let's put 10
and let's find stock so now we have
2,422 and like I mentioned we need
liquidity and liquidity doesn't come
overnight so we need to make sure that
we have some liquidity and here we do we
don't have the what I want which is
volume over a month uh but we do have
volume over three months so just just to
show you the example so volume average
volume of 3 months is greater then so
you know 100,000 usually it's a good
starting point so this brings the stocks
down to 1100 and if you see those stocks
you'll see these usually are liquid
stocks and available to be borrowed so
this is our universe that we will be
pinpointing the top three stocks to
short and the way we do this in strategy
quantex Alo wizard we go to setting
and we go to stock picker here because
we picked the strategy as stock picker
so this is the only thing available but
if it's not you have to pick it and then
we go to the groups so if you go to data
manager you see we have all these
indexes and you can build your own for
example here I buil country uh ETFs and
I buil here Equity ETFs globally you can
build your own index and we have these
indexes and as you can see Russell 2000
is about 10,000 stocks so we go back to
alga wizard we go to settings stock
picker engine and then here we can pick
the Russell 2000 now we have data since
uh 1980 for the stocks so it's usually a
very good period to start from
2006 and then for money management we
will use a fixed amount which is
$10,000 per trade so because uh
currently sqx if you use this one which
is what I want to use currently sqx just
keep there's no minimum and maximum so
at some point you will reach 100,000
shares which of course is Not Practical
on many stocks or even if it's practical
then you need to introduce a different
slippage and it's not fixed yet in 138
currently it's just open uh so you're
definitely uh want to use fixed amount
now this could be 10,000 20,000 whatever
you want and we are not using fractional
shares in trading option we will switch
on store chart data and the logs so we
can track our uh
trades okay so now we are going to build
so let's filter so we'll start with the
close the current close zero shift
because because we are using before bar
open so current close should be greater
than
$10 and now the average volume so
remember in the Yahoo screener we are
restricted to 3 months I think one month
is enough so let's pick the
SMA so SMA of the
volume of the past uh 22 trading
days shift one doesn't matter is great
greater than 800,000
shares now the only problem here is we
don't know how many stocks are filtered
but we have an idea through Yahoo
finance so basically we are looking at
about 1100 stocks but it would be nice
that you know they have like uh
something here that shows us what's this
filter producing how many stocks
basically when we pinpointing which
stocks to short we need to filter for
stocks that just moved higher now you
need to filter for stocks that are not a
buy by some company because when a
company offer to buy another company
usually they offer a premium and that
stock will shoot higher so that filter
usually let's say I don't know 10% do
not short stocks that went up more than
10% % so in that case we are not looking
for price but instead we're going to
look for range so if the close greater
than the open by a certain percentage of
ATR then we will consider that stock for
shorting so to do this we are going to
use the close uh greater than the open
again remember we are using everything
shift zero so it's the current bar so
the current bar close greater than the
open but we also want the close minus
the open to be greater than the average
true range so we can come back here at
the open and add so we go to function
plus and now instead of the open we will
have the
open plus the
ATR so average through range of the past
five
days so if the close greater than the
open plus the ATR range now this can be
done in many ways in this case we
combined everything in one step you
could say close greater than the open
and then you could say the body is
greater than the average through range
of the past five bus now remember also
we don't want to short stocks that are
being bought but so we just going to
duplicate
this and then instead of uh greater than
we will use lower than and then instead
of uh five we will do like three times
five so we come we click on the ATR we
add a
multiplication and we add the ATR again
here
five bars and now we add maybe I don't
know so three is very safe but even two
I think is good so now if the close is
greater than the open more than uh two
times the average through range that
means this stock is being uh bought by
someone so we don't want that so we make
it lower that means we are filtering
them out so all what we did so far is
filter stocks that are ripe for short
selling we looked at the Russell 2000 we
picked uh stocks that are not over the
counter they call it OTC we picked
liquid stocks and then we picked stocks
that went up a lot but not too much that
they are being bought of course even
when you are shorting this it also makes
sense to look at the news to see if the
stock is being bought or not remember we
are doing this on daily chart now once
this is happening how we are going to
enter it's not Market next day we are
going again to filter stocks that goes
up the next day or even Gap up so we do
this with a limit order so when you put
limit it says at price level so we are
not using this price we are going to use
the current close so the bar that we
closed today and if the price Gap up
tomorrow or move up tomorrow then we are
shorting at that price so we need to
start from the close so the price is the
current
close plus the ATR movement so in this
case we go back to ATR
5 and one uh uh we can uh we will do 1.2
so that means we filter the stocks and
next day we are going to put a limit
order to short when the stock goes up
basically this looks like this so let's
say the Stock's doing this and then the
stock does this so now the stock is
ready and we're not shorting on the
market next day but we are waiting for a
level higher than today
so this level is
1.2 ATR plus this
close so we are shorting over here that
means we are again filtering for stocks
that Gap up of course we will lose some
stocks that basically open here and go
down but that's okay now we will exit
when the uh stock goes in our Direction
so exit when the close of course zero
shift is lower
than the open shift zero so when the
stock goes in our Direction meaning it
goes down and the close below the open
then we are exiting and remember we are
exiting on the close so it's going to
happen on the same bar and we need just
some safety and uh you know we don't
want to use a stop loss of course you
can use a stop loss but I hate it so we
are using using a exit after number of
bars so let's use you know if it doesn't
happen in 10 bars that's two weeks
that's two uh 10 trading days uh then we
exit so that is the whole logic we're
using the Russell 2000 too many stocks
we filter for Price liquidity and for a
condition that the stock is already
moving up because you don't want a short
stock that is moving down that's uh
usually uh done with following and on
long term but usually shorting stocks is
very dangerous and you don't want to
stay too long in any shorting position
because sooner or later you will be
squeezed out so the sooner you exit the
better and once we have that we are
requiring the stock to move up again so
that's why we're placing a limit higher
than the previous close to get basically
a better fill now we come to the method
of ranking let's say we have out of 1100
stocks let's say we have 50 stocks that
match this
today and we don't want to trade 50
stocks even if we have the money for 50
stocks usually the performance is within
I would say 10 so this applies to ETFs
it applies to many I've done many many
testings in fact all my VIP plus
portfolios are done with ranking and
usually the uh the the premium spot the
optimum spot is between three and seven
anything below three it's you get a
higher draw down anything above seven
you lose a lot of uh premium uh so 3 to
S is usually The Sweet Spot to uh put a
position in so in this case we are doing
three so now I want to rank what are the
best three out of my filter so we can
use
multiple ways to rank there are you know
literally hundreds ways to do it now
first method is to rank on the same
condition that we are filtering so in
this case we are filtering on uh the
limit
Price Plus the ATR 1.2 * ATR so I can
rank on which one gapped higher so
that's a ranking method I can rank
because it's up any oscillator that's
going up so any oscillator that is the
highest that's basically the best
probability for shorting today we are
using a simple method which is rate of
change basically we measure the rate of
change on every bar and we rank which
one is the highest rate of change so
which one moved up the most that matches
our filter
we will pick the top three so we come to
the position score we click on value and
we are using
R so this is rate of change price
divided by the previous price so minus
one so this is the change in
percent of one bar to the next using the
close then multiply by 100 that's just
basically just get the percent out so
now we are right if this number is
higher that means this stock moved more
than the rest and the top one usually
moved the highest so let's uh pick this
one and we will use five bars and shift
zero so now we are ranking for the five
and how many position we are going to
trade we are going to trade three
positions so everything here that pass
this
filter we rank them on the uh rate of
change and we pick the top three and
then we place a limit order next day
that is higher than the close today by
1.2 times the ATR so now we come here
and we run a full back test remember we
are testing since 2006 Russell 2000 so
you can see here it's doing its thing
loading all the symbols and here we have
the final result
so if we click on this and remember we
are restricted to 10,000 per position
even when we have a lot of money because
we remember we started in 2006 now let
me show you the trade analysis so really
good we have only two three four years
down and a lot of years up and look at
this the market was up in the past four
years a lot
and this is a shorting strategy and it
made the most money remember we are
using 10,000 fixed so it's it's it's
making the most amount of money lately
and we look at the overview so our open
Draw down is about
21% 63 % win rate
1583 trades our exposure is
43% now I can keep everything the same
and now we can play with these value
basically we can optimize so for example
this filter if I change this to let's
say uh
1.5 uh how would that affect the
strategy so we have less trades and also
less profit okay so how about I go the
opposite direction what about if I go to
3.5
so now we have more trades in and we're
making more money so probably I will go
again at six so this is uh the top of
the range I think not going to happen we
have also the exit after bars remember I
told you if you exit quicker because we
are in short so let's take it to five
which is half and let's see the effect
of this now of course we can also uh
optimize this but remember we have the
position ranking like I told you we are
trading three so the optimum is 3 to7
Let's do five positions and see what we
get and the performance degrades uh
maybe even if we go
two and two seems to perform the best
now also we have the rate of change so
we are ranking on five maybe if I rank
on
10 this is also looks good now also
remember we are trading the Russell 2000
we can go back and change to Russell
1000 we change it again to
2006 and let's add commission I mean uh
commission usually is very low so if you
pick stock picker commission it's .35
cents per share so usually I mean it's
good to add it but it will not have that
huge effect but let's see the Russell
1000
performance so Russell 1000 is worse and
finally I'm going to pick the Russell
3000 and the Russell 3000 it looks very
close to the Russell 2000 once you are
happy with the strategy you can save the
strategy and then you can trade exact
same code in algol Cloud so if you go to
algol cloud.com uh this is strategy
Quant X service basically it's a
hosted in the cloud using the same code
that you generate in strategy Quant X
algo cloud and then you can connect it
to your broker currently available is
alpaka and interactive brokers more are
being added and just to let you know
that the strategy I just showed you was
built on this example so this is me
reversion short on the Russell 3000 so
if I show you the detail so this is the
strategy and you can clone the
strategy so here is the strategy cloned
and you you will see the performance is
much much better but because this
strategy is tested since
2019 but as you know my strategy is
tested since 2006 but you look at 2019
is the same performance so 2019 we have
higher and then lower
uh basically what I added here which I
think it's missing from the example this
is very important and this is very
important so if you look at the
example we look at here here it says
volume greater than 100,000 so this is
not enough because if you look at any
stock that being bought usually the
volume will Spike so it trades 5,000
shares today and then tomorrow it will
trade a million shares
uh so definitely you need to look at the
moving average of at least 20 days to
pass these stocks that are being bought
also remember I added this condition
which is also again to make sure that we
are not trading a stock that is being
bought so these two filters I think they
are extremely important I am very
excited about algo Cloud because you get
rid of the VPS basically it's a hosted
service they take care of the code the
execution and connecting to the broker
you just fund your broker account and
build a strategy and trade it so it's
really really good although it's in the
beginning I'm sure it's going to get
much much better or let's hope that it's
going to get much much better and trade
more assets also I want to thank
strategy Quant X team for graciously
providing a huge discount to my viewers
and my students and my community members
and you can use that discount in the
description below to learn more about
strategy Quant X1 watch this video and I
will see you there
[Music]
