price action is an important tool in
every Trader's Arsenal now the
definition of price action differ from
one person to the next but to me all
patterns fall into price action so this
include candlesticks 4day 3-day
formations today I will introduce you to
an extremely powerful price action
pattern it's a single bar price action
pattern I use it as entry as exit and as
filter and if you keep watching till the
end of the video video you will end up
with a strategy that works on multiple
indexes using this pattern in fact this
pattern just made $4,000 on a single
contract last week welcome back everyone
to St Oasis Channel my name is Ali Casey
and first let me describe what this
pattern is this is a representation of a
Candlestick so every day in every
instrument you will have this single bar
which shows the open the close and the
high and the low in this case the close
is higher than the open so the close
minus the open this is the body and then
this is the highest point that the
market reached during the day and this
is the lowest point so if we deduct the
low from the close and we divided by the
high minus close we will get a fixed
number between 0er and one and this is
called IBS short for internal bar
strength so the equation is close minus
low divided by high minus low equal a
number so if the close happen at the low
that means close minus low is zero then
this whole equation becomes zero and if
the close happen at the high that means
close minus low is the same as high
minus low so that brings the equation to
one so the equation is always between 0
and one and of course if the close is
anywhere in between then the number will
be between zero and one so 0 2
2327 whatever now if you multiply this
whole equation by 100 then the number
becomes 0 to 100 so whichever makes
sense to you you can use that equation
and that is how simple this pattern is
first of all it uses only one bar so we
don't need to look at 100 day moving
average 5 day moving average we only
need to look at a single bar and then we
do our equation and and the result of
our equation will be used as a filter as
an entry or as an exit here we are in
strategy quantx this is build
1381 1837 we are in algo wizard so as to
build any strategy we like and we will
build the IBS pattern inside strategy
Quant X so we can come
here
and I will put the result as a number
and let's
say3 so that means the close should be
at the bottom third of the bar because
if the close is here then the result
will be about3 or lower and this worked
very well as a meere reversion strategy
so first I will test it on the S&P 500
the data here since 2006 and we will do
one contract and just to test our theory
that these things work I will show you
the exit end of day and I will save the
chart data so we can look at the trade
so let's run the back test and here is
what it looks
like and let's see trades on chart zoom
in so this is what's happening when the
close in the bottom thirdd we buy the
next day and we exit the same day again
bottom third we do it bottom third we do
it and same thing here bottom third we
buy we exit our loss same thing here we
exit our loss and so on and so forth so
the code working very nice now why do I
do this is just to find if there is a
raow edge in the strategy so in the
overview you can see that we're already
making
$60 that is huge and definitely there is
an edge there so you might say well you
know you pick this because you already
know and of course I do know and I have
a huge bias because I know IBS works I
have many strategies that uses IBS as an
entry and exit and filter so there is no
way for me not to know but still I will
show you how you can find out if you are
picking a peak or if this is really a
raw Edge so the simplest way is to
change
this3 to the neighboring numbers so
let's go to
0.25 and run a fullback
test and here we have we make more money
and let's go
[Music]
to2 and now we make a lot more money so
we know we're going in the right
direction but now let's go to the
opposite side which is
35 and we make less money
and if we go even to
[Music]
four and we back to around the same
amount of money so we just find out by
changing the parameter which is the only
parameter we have we have only a single
parameter and we went 30% up and down
and we find out the row Edge is still
there so that is really really good
because changing the parameter up and
down 30% and we still have a great Edge
that means we are on solid foundation so
now we can expand and build this
strategy now this line takes a while to
build and also we cannot customize it
easily so in order to build strategies
optimized we need to build a custom
block and that is what I did so I have
two custom blocks here one is where the
equation lower than a value and the
other one is where the equation is
higher than a value so first let me pick
now the exit so now I will switch the
end of
day and I will turn on the exit so now
the exit is when the IBS is higher than
a number and in this case it's 80 so
let's start with 70 because this is
30 and again you can see it's working
and we can keep changing these up and
down to find out that there is a row
Edge there is a stable pattern so to do
this the easy way we can go to op
Optimizer and load our strategy and
optimize it here so if you go to full
settings optimization you can see we are
using simple optimization and your own
settings so with your own settings if
you switch other parameters we only have
two and this is sqx way of naming the
variables remember our variable here
were a custom block so when you use a
custom block uh for some reason
uh sqx uses its own naming although I
have name for these variables but sqx
doesn't use it in any case I know that
this is the start because this goes 20
and this is 80 so this is the lower than
number and this is higher than number so
let's optimize these from 5 to 45 in a
step of five and the exit from 55 to
95 in a step of five so that will give
us
81 combinations and those are all the
combinations so if I run now I click on
anyone so you can see here it's 82
because this is the original strategy
and now we get to the results so if you
go to the optimization profile now we
get to see the profile of our
optimization so let me maximize this So
currently what we are looking at a 3D
surface
of our entry and exit with the z-axis as
net profit so this is net profit and we
notice immediately that we starting from
around 50,000 that means all our
optimizations are profitable in fact
let's go there so let me put this down
so if i s by return to draw down ratio
you can see minimum is 2.8 and you can
see the net profit is 39 if I sort by
net profit so that's 39 9 maximum is 264
so all our
optimizations are profitable now let's
look at the 3D chart not only that we
have a huge stable area so you can see
that uh 55 all the way to
95 they're all
stable and anything above 15 to 55 is
stable off and we can see Also let's go
to maximum intraday grow down also we
can see that it's very stable so all
this area the green area is very stable
the only one that is big here is above
90 so this is 90 where we have a huge uh
draw down now there's another way to
look at this which if we go to
2D and this is the maximum intraday and
this is the entry so the entry from 5 to
45 we can see that the best one is at
five so green is the best and red is the
worst and you can see so the difference
here is big and if we switch to the exit
so now it's 55 to 95 above 95 is also
bad so we know that anything above 10
below 90 will be good so if we go back
here now and if I pick let's say 15 and
and
85 so that is below 15 and above 85 run
the back test and let's look at our
strategy now we can easily add slippage
and commission let's go to settings and
we can add per trade this is 17 and a
half so this is uh including commission
and slippage for the SNP if we run it
again 377 trades
221,000 now I I featured IBS many times
on the channel and this is probably
three years ago now I started with this
pattern so you can consider 21 22 and 23
is out of sample already live out of
sample you can see the strategy makes a
lot of money regardless of which one you
pick as entry and exit in fact this
December I posted in the community that
this pattern will happen with the
seasonality in December IBS was one of
the strategies that I had and it all
already made more than $4,000 on a
single contract on the DS and we can
check here that the strategy made
$36,000 21 this is the out of sample
21,22 and
8,700 in 23 and as I told you in
December it made $4,000 on a single
trade now the title of the video is
price action on on the NASDAQ so what is
this es all about of course the es is
the most prominent me reversion
instrument and IBS is a mere version
pattern so now let's test the same
numbers same strategy same everything on
the NASDAQ and this is very easy to do I
just go to settings so it's very easy I
just change to
NQ and still doing one contract no
commission this time and this is the
strategy it makes more money money with
an average of
891 also last 3 years doing very well
82,0 4,
58,000 and here is the same strategy now
on the Dow using the same data same
everything single
contract and this is amazing because the
Dow is like $5 a point and we're still
making
174,000 with
$480 on average and again 21 is
$119,000 22 is $25,000 and this year is
27 of course as usual I advocate to
trade a portfolio of strategies and now
you can combine all these but remember
there are no filters here there are no
variations in this strategy and it's
amazing that the same strategy produce
extremely high profits without
optimization we just picked a stable
area on the es and it works very good on
the NASDAQ it works very good on the Dow
and of course it works very good on a
lot of other instruments to learn more
about IBS watch this video and I will
see you
[Music]
there
