to Be an Effective Trader you need to
look at edges that other Traders are
missing or not looking at it and most
technical indicators usually are based
on price so when you get an indicator
that uses price and volume usually it
produce unique perspective hello
everyone my name is Ali Casey from stat
Oasis Channel money flow index is a
unique indicator because it combines
price and volume to construct an
oscillator and oscillators are really
good for for me reversion strategies
because they tell you when the price is
overbought and oversold and although
most oscillators fail to generate short
trades on the indexes this one does
really a good job like I mentioned money
flow index is an oscillator that uses
price and volume and that's the main
difference between it and the other
oscillator but the way we will use it is
just like other oscillators which is to
find the overbought and oversold levels
another difference in money flow index
is it doesn't use the close in the
calculations instead it use the typical
price and typical price is the high plus
the low plus the close divided by three
so these factors the typical price and
the volume make this indicator unique
and here is the money flow index on the
chart I have here the Russell 2000
Futures and at the bottom here we can
see the money flow index indicator and
the two levels of overbought and
oversold so default is 14 which of
course uh meaningless as usual but if
you open it up you can of course change
this and if you switch it to two which
is We compare it with rsi2 you can see
now we get many more signals and of
course anything between I think two and
10 is good but 14 is definitely I find
it too slow now it doesn't matter matter
because we are going to test the whole
range and find a stable area to see what
we can trade so here we are in
multicharts and I have the same Futures
Market which is the Russell 2000 this is
the daily bars and we will introduce the
strategy to this market so this is the
strategy using a two bar look back so
just like I showed you on the chart with
two you get many signals and then we're
using 25 the level 2 5 to go long but
we're also using 75 to go short so this
is a long short strategy so here is the
strategy parameters our look back is two
and that's why we have so many signals
and the oversold area to go long is 25
and the overbo level to go short is 75
so the strategy is long and short just
remember that short is really difficult
on the indexes but we are going to try
to make it here
there are no filters currently because
zero denotes no filter and the exit type
zero meaning we're exiting on the same
bar so once we enter we exit on the same
bar this is just to see if there is an
edge or not so it's a huge number of
Trades and the strategy there is nothing
actually so this is three and two that's
scratch remember there is no slippage
and Commission in the strategy so I will
develop the short side separately from
the long side to see how this indicator
can help us in Crea a short strategy so
we will optimize the strategy from 2 to
10 in step of one and our entry level to
go long so it's below five all the way
to 45 step five and our short level
which is to go short above 55 all the
way to 95 in step of five so all in all
we have 729 combinations remember we are
still exiting at the same bar again just
to find a an edge but this time it's
only for the short side and no filters
so sorting by custom Fitness which is
the return to draw down and we can
scroll down we can see we have 27
strategies that are doing uh same amount
of profit compared to the draw down okay
so I guess that's an acceptable Edge
remember we're exiting on the same bar
so that's definitely going to be
enhanced once we introduce an exit
strategy and it looks like 6 7 and 10
that's the look back and after 10 we
have five so then I think six would be a
good choice now between six all these
are 85 and
75 uh so maybe we pick something in the
middle so 85 25 let's do that okay so
now we have a a short strategy with the
money flow index using six look back 25
to go long and 85 to go short exiting
the same day so now we will introduce
the exit the strategy so zero is the
same day one is the next day and two
using the opposite signal so let's test
these and see and so zero is the
original and now we find that two is the
best which is the opposite signal
because you see here the average trade
is 43 and we almost triple our average
trade and we reduce our uh total traes
from 337 to 107 so definitely this is
much better okay so now that I'm
satisfied with this let's pick it and
let's see so our strategy now short
strategy we're making 170 trades on
average we're making
$116 this is on the Russell so that's
definitely a good strategy I can further
go and enhance this strategy by adding a
filter and here I have uh 66 filters
half of of them are my market regime
filters this is version two of Market
regime and the other half are just
regular
filters and let's sort by custom Fitness
again and let's look for the number zero
to see so here is zero okay great so 21
filters produce better results than the
original strategy and if we look at the
top uh this is remember this one is
making
$122,000
and here we have 18 have 23 21 29 also
good now filter 1 to 40 are my market
regime filters so this is my market
regime so let's look at the next best
one out of my market regime and this
would be 56 and let me look at
56 and believe it or not filter 56 is if
the close lower than the previous close
happened twice in the past week
and this filter is amazing because
compared to the original first of all we
reduced the trades in half we reduce the
draw down in half and we double the
profits and it's only the close lower
than the previous close twice in last
week so this is an amazing filter so
let's pick that out and this is now our
strategy yes lower number of Trades
51 and uh we're making 4 65 on the
Russell that is just amazing and this is
how the curves look like of course this
is one side we know that the long side
it will be very easy to generate a
profitable strategy so now I'm going to
test the strategy on the S&P 500 again
this is just the short side we're
exiting on the opposite signal and we're
optimizing the lookback and the levels
and as you see again it's difficult to
generate really good strategies so we're
making profits but the same uh draw down
but of course we can enhance this with a
filter so three shows up in the top so I
I'm assuming three is good and then
these are the overbought and oversold
level let's pick something in the middle
so maybe 85 and 35 that looks nice now
obviously this is worse in draw down but
again the filter will enhance it I'm
just trying to pick a stable area so let
me go with f
and now we will test all our
filters and if we sort by return to draw
down again about 20 filters perform
better than the original strategy
without a filter and again uh up to 40
those are all Market regime version 2 so
2411 so the next one we have is
49 so 49 also producing but better
profit but higher draw down but still
let's see what 49 is and the filter is
if the close higher than the previous
close either today or yesterday so again
it's an extremely simple filter but see
the results so we have 264 trades goes
to almost half and then our average
trade goes from 99 to
436 and if we choose this filter and we
have 138 trades making plus $400 on the
short side so again this is really
really good and this is how the equity
curve looks like so in my view this is
one of the best indicators that you can
use to generate short strategies on the
indexes because I think the combination
of the volume and the typical price
because all other indicators usually
they are using price only and that's why
they have many false signals this one is
like using a filter which is volume
built in the indicator now of course you
can still optimize long and short
together but I don't do that but let me
show you what will that look like so
same thing here we are optimizing the
look back and the oversold overbo level
but now we are long and short together
so we're almost going to be always in
the market unless we have a filter
because the exit will be the entry for
the other side sorting by return to draw
down you can see we have many stries
iies that doing really really well so
definitely more than half the strategies
are really good strategies long and
short and you can see this is the look
back three overbought 65 over sold 35
remember long and short together so if I
choose it you can see how the strategy
in and out switching in and out now if
we introduce a filter again we will test
all
filters and if we sort return to draw
down and let's look at zero so this is
our original strategy and we can see we
have nine filters doing much better than
the original strategy again 0 to 40 are
my uh Market regime version two and you
and we can see a theme here that market
regime usually produce the best results
because it's built on Direction and
volatility so the best one we have after
market regime is 55 and if I look at 55
and filter 55 is if the close below the
previous close either today or yesterday
so again extremely simple filter but the
results are amazing because the
difference is huge this one is 758
trades and this one is 661 so that's
almost 100 trades off but then the
average trade goes from 300 to
400 and draw down goes from 46 to 36
and profits goes from 218 to
276 so if we pick that so this is how
the strategy looks
like and we see now we have almost in
the middle so
319 trades in the short side and 42 342
trades on the long side both of them and
the 60s profit rate and both of them
making above
$300 for the es which is really really
good and looking at all years we can see
2020 which is the covid year and that's
why you see this huge number because the
short crash in the co this strategy made
a lot of money in it because it has
really a good short side now the
advantage of using the entry signal as
an exit signal is you can use this
strategy in the same account because
usually Brokers will not allow you to go
long and short in the same account but
when doing this strategy you're always
exiting one side to enter in the into
the other side so this strategy can be
applied long and short on the same
Market in the same account to learn more
about indicator strategies watch this
video and I will see you
[Music]
there
[Music]
