are your strategies outperforming in
strategy Quant X but then stumble when
you move it to other platforms like
metatrader or trade station if this
happens to you most of the time no
worries it happens to me it happens to
every users who uses strategy quantex in
this video I will explain to you why
this happens and how to fix it first of
all if you don't know let me introduce
you to strategy quantex it is a platform
that can generate strategies without any
code it's not unique in this Marketplace
but it is one of the best in my opinion
because of its other features basically
the platform has a pool of Entry blocks
and a pool of exit blocks and a pool of
indicators and filters and it shuffles
everything up to come up with strategies
that matches your criteria so here we
are in strategy Quant X and I am
building a long only strategy using
genetic Evolution conditions one to2
with stoploss and profit Target required
these are the options for genetic
Builder and the data here I'm using
trade station Engine with the S&P 500
since 2009 and this is my requirement
profit factor of greater than 1.3
average trade greater than $100 return
to draw down ratio greater than four I'm
requiring 8,000 strategy so running the
Builder will generate 8,000 strategies
we can stop it at any time there you go
you have a th000 strategy is as peror
requirement or even better once you have
your strategies you can run them through
multiple robustness testing and save
them and they are ready to go so far so
good you immediately have a th000
strategies that all base on your
criteria on your instrument and so on so
forth now to trade this strategy you
need to take it to another platform that
can execute the trades and connect to a
broker and strategy Quant X offer two
solutions either export the code as
plain English it's called pseudo code so
basically you can take it into any other
platform and try to program in that
platform or it exports direct code to
two types of platforms metatrader 4 and
five trade station and multicharts met
Trader uses mql and trade station
multicharts uses a form of easy language
so for example I like this strategy I
click on it and if you go to the source
code here you have the J Forex this is
for Java and then you have met Trader 4
met Trader 5 and you have trade station
and multicharts and you have pseudo code
and XML so for example this strategy
it's on es. D if I click here copy
all and then go to trade station and
bring the strategy code paste everything
and
verify and now the strategy is running
so this is the strategy and that's it
you're done now Trace station can trade
the strategy on its brokerage firm here
is our problem in strategy context we
are using the Futures es. D since 2009
till end of 2019 same thing is here
since 2009 same symbol but the strategy
executed here produce
$37,000
947 here it produces 52 something profit
Factor 2.2 here is 2.4 average trade 214
average trade here is
232 number of Trades 177 number of
Trades here
226 but the equity chart looks highly
correlated so the strategy is different
the numbers are different but the curve
is very correlated so why this is
happening first let me point out that
this problem is not only related to
strategy quantex all the other
competitors like build Alpha genetic
system builder adapt trade they all have
the same issues now I don't work for any
of these companies and I don't have any
inside information but from my own
research here is why this is happening
problem number one is engine translation
if you speak more than one language you
will understand this it's impossible
sometimes to translate whatever you're
trying to translate from one language to
another perfectly every language has its
nuances and the way you talk and the way
you structure the sentence a lot of
times it will be impossible to translate
100% whatever you're trying to say in
language a to language B even if you are
fluent in both languages and here is the
same thing strategy Quant X is built on
Java built Alpha is built on C and the
other two platforms are also built on
some version of c and they are
translating to easy language which is a
highlevel language and some of them
translating to mql and some of them
translating to ninja Trader these are
all different languages they have
different structure so it's not as easy
as it looks to translate from one
language to another plus these software
developers don't have direct access to
the other platforms engines for example
trade station doesn't welcome this
platform and say look here's our engine
go dig in deep and try to translate
whatever we are doing plus when trade
station update their engine they not
notify the other platform this applies
to all other platforms so their
incentives are not aligned with each
other and that's why it will always be
like a cat and mouse so trade station
ninja Trader meta Trader all these
platforms will have their own path to
update and then all these other builders
try to catch up to find out what's the
update and fix whatever it's broken
second problem is data so data providers
are totally different from one to the
other even though they are all receiving
the data from the same Exchange in case
of Futures and uh stocks and ETFs in
terms of Forex every bank has their own
data stream but let's focus on Futures
it comes from One exchange but even then
they're totally different from one data
vendor to the other because data needs
to be cleaned up and there are so many
things that needs to be done before
servicing it to the other client one
other major problem is time stamp so
most platforms timestamp the bar on the
close but some platforms like metatrader
stamp the bar on the open and of course
this is a huge deal so here is an
example I have here two bars this is
hourly bars H1 so this one is from 8:00
a.m. till 9:00 a.m. second bar is from
9:00 a.m. till 10 p.m. in trade station
this bar will be stamped at 10 because
it's stamping the close the same bar
metatrader will see it as 9:00 a.m.
because it's stamping the open and of
course this will have many issues with
the code and how to generate the orders
and so on so forth so some platforms
like strategy Quant X and build Alpha
who exports to trade station ninja
Trader and metatrader they will face
other problems than let's say genetic
system builder or adap trade because
those guys only export to a trade
station and multicharts and uh Ninja
Trader they're all stamping at the close
the guys who are stamping the close and
the open now they have to deal with two
different engines and they have to deal
with two different logic so it's just an
extra layer of complication that adds to
these platforms problem number three is
resources all these platforms has to
have some developers behind their
platforms in order to develop solve bugs
add new features and so on so so forth
also they have to run a business of
selling these platforms marketing and so
on so forth and other than strategy
quantex every other platforms that I
know it's usually a single person behind
it so that person is the business
manager is the customer support is the
sales manager and is the developer so
it's really hard to give enough time to
solve every little nuances happening on
the other platform platforms so what
most of these platforms do is they
export their own indicators inside trade
station or multicharts or ninja Trader
in order to mitigate most of the
mismatches between the strategies in
both platforms so for example these are
functions in genetic system builder
exported to trade station in order to
match the strategy same thing these are
the functions by strategy Quant X in
order to match the the strategies
between both platforms number four on
our list is complications the more
complication you add to your strategy in
strategy context on any of these
Builders the more likely that the
strategy will not match when you move it
to the other platforms those
complications could be anything profit
Target stop loss many variables many
filters the more you add the more likely
it's not going to be the same on the
other platform and finally at number
five is other nuances every platform has
its own nuances so developers know this
because they know the code under the
hood and some things you cannot just do
so for example when I needed to program
my market regime indicator for strategy
Quant X I couldn't do some features
because the way strategy Quant X was
built could not do that features now
this is not a bug or a fault it's just
the way the strategy Quant X engine was
built it wasn't meant to handle that
feature so you can imagine when trade
station ninja Trader metat Trader they
have some nuances in their engine that
the other platforms trying to replicate
they either can do it or they have to do
a work around to approximate how to do
it another example is ranking for
example strategic quantex added ranking
where you can rank 100 instrument and
trade the top five that could not be
done in multicharts or trade station
without some heavy heavy heavy coding
and a lot of workr why again this is not
a bug the platform was not built to do
that feature take crypto as another
example crypto uses eight decimals now
Forex used to use four decimals and then
they introduce the fifth which is just a
gimmick but everything else uses two or
three decimals so those platforms that
meant to trade futures for example they
are not used to trade crypto even their
indicators are not to the point of
calculating the eigh decimal and
therefore of course this platform now
has a Band-Aid solution to trade crypto
same as strategy Quant X and build Alpha
and GSB have a Band-Aid solution to
approximate the export of strategies
also I get this many times which is
metat Traders trying to trade Futures
this platform was not built to trade
Futures and Futures are different so
again it's just a Band-Aid solution and
it will not work properly now that I
laid down the most probable causes why
this discrepancy between the building
platform and the execution platform
let's find the solutions and number one
is update you need to update to the next
version of your platform so when
strategy quantex update their platform
they usually update all the indicators
all the calculations and the function
and it is really important to reimport
import those indicators and functions
into your platform so usually when you
install a new strategy Quant X you will
have custom indicators inside the folder
if you click on it you will find here uh
trade station for example so if you
click on trade station and just click on
the ELD this should reimport all the
functions indicators and strategies so
just click on all of
them and yes to all and and it will go
and update everything and verify
everything again now remember when you
update your strategy Contex keep the old
version in a separate folder because
most likely the update version will fix
something and it will break another
thing so if the thing that it breaks
very important to you you have something
to go back to if the thing that it
breaks is not that important then you
can switch to the new version this
applies to all other building platform
forms like the one that I mentioned
Point number two to fix the
discrepancies is data data is really an
important part of every algorithmic
Trader and it's an important part of
every platform without data you cannot
do anything and when you use different
data vendors you will find discrepancies
even in the same platform so here is an
example of data here I have a simple
strategy when the SMA 5 period crosses
above the SMA 20 period we will go along
and we will exit after five bars here I
have the same strategy so SMA 5 cross
above SMA 20 we go along exit after five
bars here we are using trade station
engine at es this is the daily time
frame since uh beginning of 2009 till
April 7th and here we are using uh trade
station engine same historical look back
but the data is from trade station so I
exported 24 hours session uh from trade
station but it's daily time frame so
both are the same I run this fullback
test and let's run this fullback test
and now let's compare so this strategy
same strategy same engine same platform
I'm just making use of a different data
vendor so this one makes
$110,000 with 487 trades this one makes
9,9 $0000 with 4002 trades so just by
changing the data everything else is the
same I get different results so always
make sure to use the data that you will
trade with in your back testings for
example if you are trading at the end
with metatrader then it's very important
to import that data from metatrader into
strategy context and test on that data
build your strategies on that data
because then you will decrease your
discrepancy a lot also extremely
important to point is your executing
trading platform meaning trade station
ninja Trader whatever your platform that
you'll execute the trade on if you're
executing on a special session or
special time frame like 15 minutes 1
hour then you need to export that time
frame that session into sqx also do not
build the daily time frame or the hourly
time frame from one minute time frame
that's also a no no you should export
any time frame that you want to use in
sqx as its own so if you're planning to
test on 15 minutes you should export 15
minutes if you're planning on trading 30
minutes or daily you should export
everyone separate and number four on our
list is the instrument parameters so if
you are trading stocks it's extremely
easy every stock move in one cent at a
time of course it can move more but the
minimum move which is called The Tick is
1 cent and every stock point is $1 so
the move one point it's subdivided into
100 moves which is 1 cent each in
Futures the operation is totally
different because every future Market
has its own uh minimum tick minimum
movement and it has its own value so for
example this is crude oil in strategy
quantex and as you can see the PIP or
the tick size is 0.01 that means we have
a 100 tick in every point but every
point is $1,000 and if I bring heating
oil you can see that heating oil goes
for decimals and each fourth decimal
move is one tick and when heating oil
moves in one full point that's
$42,000 and this is the settings in
trade station this is for the S&P 500
you can see it it has a minimum move of
25 that means four moves in a point and
each point is worth $50 so every
platform has its own place where you can
set these values the tig value or the
PIP value the minimum move and the big
point value and those are extremely
important to set it up correctly in
order to avoid any discrepancies number
five on our list is slippage and
commission try to not add your slippage
and Commission in your building platform
so if you're using strategy Quant X do
not add slippage and Commission in the
strategy you can use the average trade
to mitigate that so let's take the S&P
500 the s&p500
Futures uh it cost $25 dollar let's say
on average to get in $2 and half dollar
to get out that's the commission for the
broker now it could be $1 for you $3 for
somebody else doesn't doesn't matter
let's say it's $5 in and out slippage is
one tick so as we know by now one tick
in the S&P 500
is15 so one tick in one tick out that's
$25 so $25 and5 so slippage and
commission is $30 in total if you add
that in sqx and there is a bug so one
version I noticed there was a bug where
it was not adding $3 sometimes it's
adding five so it's much better to leave
it off and you look at your average
trade if your average trade is $100 well
you know $30 is slipage and commission
So you you're very safe you are uh
almost four times your slipage and
commission so you look at your average
trade and you judge if it's good or not
then when you move to your execution
platform then you can add your slippage
and commission number six on our list is
simple versus complicated I would highly
advise to stay simple with your
strategies simple strategies first of
all they are much more robust than
complicated strategies they're very
easily vetted in any robustness testing
so you don't need complicated algorithms
to vet if the strategy is robust or not
also it's extremely easy to debug let's
say you build the strategy is very
simple you can just look at the chart
and see if your logic is making sense or
not if you're entering on the same logic
or not it's a lot easier to debug
complicated strategies on the other hand
it's the opposite it's very hard to
debug it's very hard to vet for
robustness and most likely it will not
transform well to other platforms so if
you're adding two three indicators two
multiplications of ATR stop-loss profit
Target Break Even stoploss trailing
stop-loss all these add more
complications to the code to the engine
and most likely you'll find that these
strategies does not trans ER well to the
execution platforms also intraday
strategies or multiple time frame
strategies don't transfer well and the
final solution is look at correlations
the best way to vet the strategy from
your building platform to your execution
platform is correlation don't look at
the number of Trades the average trade
the net profit and so on so forth if
your Equity curve is highly correlated
with the equity curve on the other
platform I think you are good because
most like the error is in data vendor or
in your uh instrument properties bigo
value the stop-loss value it's something
of these sorts that will change the
number of trades or the net profit and
now just debug it in your execution
platform to vet if it's still good or
not the key takeaway here is the
strategy discrepancy between the
building platform like strategy quantex
and the execution platform like trade
station is not a bug this will never be
solved because the builders will always
trying to catch up to the execution
platform and in my humble opinion for
these platform to succeed they need to
move on to be an execution platform and
actually strategy quantex is one of the
first to move in that direction so right
now they have their algo Cloud algo
Cloud will take the strategies built in
strategy quantex engine and then without
any translation it's using the same code
same engine it goes and execute those
strategies live on the market currently
it's only for stocks and ETFs and
hopefully soon they will introduce Forex
Futures and crypto by the way I have an
infographic that summarize all these
points if you go to the community and go
to docks and go to resources and then go
to strategy Quant X and here is this one
reduce sqx discrepancies so this guide
summarized the whole thing in one
infographic to learn more about straty
Quant X watch this video and I will see
you there
[Music]
