the S P 500 most likely is going to
break down very soon the reason is the
VIX Index the VIX Index is calculated
using the standard SP 500 options the S
P 500 options has multiple expiries and
only the options that will expire in the
next 23 days to less than 37 days will
be included in this calculation
no need to worry about the math used in
the calculation or the fundamentals
behind it basically the VIX Index
measure the fear and the S P 500 Index
so when the VIX Index is low that means
there is nothing to fear in the market
and usually the S P 500 will be drifting
up and when the VIX Index spikes that
means there is an event that is going to
happen soon or just happened and usually
the market which is the S P 500 will
take overall the VIX Index is always in
a down drift which is expected because
the S P 500 is always in and up drift so
this is the S P 500 Index with monthly
bars and in general we hover between 10
and 20 and anything above 20 is
considered a spike that means there is
an event in the market going to happen
or just happened and when the index is
extremely low below 10 that means we
should should expect an event to happen
very soon I just wanted to show to show
you here the spikes this is the subprime
crisis 2008 and this is the covet crisis
in 2020 and these are small spikes but
if I put the S P 500 below it you can
see that whenever we have a spike the
market tanks and even those spikes
remember this is monthly chart so we can
see a small drift down here
also this is kovid and we can see the
the appeal
now if I switch this to daily
now we can see the correlation in a
clearer way so we can see anytime the
vix is up the market is down we can see
there is a high correlation between the
S P 500 and the VIX Index because the
VIX Index as I mentioned is calculated
from the options on the S P 500. this is
the weekly chart of the VIX Index and we
can see we are making new lows recently
these laws did not happen since 2020 and
from the daily time frame of the VIX
Index we can see that we made a yearly
low in June of this year and two lows in
July and then another low in August and
just recently we are also hovering
around the same low in beginning of
September the VIX Index which is also
called The Fear index is a mean
reverting index that means usually when
we contract a lot we are going to blow
up very soon and when when we blow up
usually we will come down also very soon
so as you saw from the previous chart we
already made three new laws this year
alone that only tells me that we are
going to spike very soon of course I'm
not the only one looking at the chart
and expecting a huge Spike soon in fact
season next just published an article
about the volatility now season X is a
seasonal pattern recognition engine and
using their engine they come up with
this chart this chart represents more
than 100 Years of seasonal study on the
Dow Jones volatility basically what the
seasonal chart shows is that the
volatility usually drift lower in
January and again Lower in April lower
in July lower in November and December
and go up February March May June August
September and October now we can use the
seasonal to trade the effects index the
way we do that is by trading the future
derivatives of the VIX Index so here is
the VIX Index represented by at VX
that's the continuous future symbol of
the VIX Index here I applied a strategy
that shorts the beginning of every month
like I told you the VIX Index drift
lower all the time just like the S P 500
it drifts up all the time of course we
will have the spikes on the way up so
for example this one and again this one
but even with all these spikes the
strategy is very profitable sure thing
every beginning of the month and exiting
at the end of the month that means you
are always in the market and here I have
data for almost 17 years we can see we
are making about 160 thousand dollars
with a maximum drawdown of 71 000 so of
course that's a huge drawdown and it is
expected because we're holding all the
time and of course we will called these
spikes in total we have 203 trades on
average 785 dollars per trade that is a
very good average trade and our win rate
is almost 70 percent so if I want to add
the seasonality to the strategy I'm
going to optimize by buying every month
separately and this is the result so
from January all the way to December and
now we can compare our strategy to the
seasonal pattern so genuine is down so
we expect to make money in January and
we are February and March are up so we
expect to lose money so if everybody
were losing but much we are not and then
April is down we expect to make money
that's also true and then July is down
we expect to make money that is also
true and then August September October
we are going up so we expect to lose
money so August we're losing September
is very low October we are losing money
and then November and December are down
and we expect to make money and it is
also true so so this just shows how
robust is this pattern the seasonal
pattern for the past 100 years matches
the trades that we are having for the
past 15 plus years so now we can build
the strategy using this pattern
confidently all we can use the seasonal
pattern as a filter for other strategies
on the S P 500 to demonstrate how we can
use this seasonal pattern as a filter
for other strategies I'm going to use a
strategy that is well known especially
if you are a viewer of the channel which
is the RSI tool it's the default
strategy fdrs I2 below 30 we will buy
and fdrs I2 above 70 we will sell this
is the strategy result 180 000 in
profits with thirty five thousand
dollars in drawdown about 400 trades for
the past 16 years with 450 dollars on
average per trade now at the bottom here
I have my proprietary indicator Style
Oasis volatility Market regime this
indicator is included in my algo trading
Master Class algo trading masterclass is
about teach
LED robust strategies I use strategic
Quant X software to automate the
building process and the robustness
testing of the strategies and like I
mentioned study Oasis Market regime is
included in ATM so this is version 2 of
the indicator which will launch very
soon and as you saw from the VIX Index
the volatility is drifting down this
year so this is May of last year and we
pick July last year and we have been
drifting down now this indicator has
three states the green is low volatility
the red is high volatility and the
yellow is normal volatility so I can
optimize the strategy which is the RSI
instead of the months now I can optimize
it based on the volatility regime so we
have three only zero means there is no
Mark the gym selected so zero is the
original strategy and one two three are
the volatility regimes and here are the
results of the optimization so this is
the original strategy 180 000 profits 35
000 in drawdown about 400 trades an
average of 450 per trade so I would turn
to draw down is five and our
profitability is 74 the First Market
regime is the quiet Market regime we can
see when the market regime is quiet that
means the volatility is drifting lower
that is the best time to go along on the
S P 500 which of course makes perfect
sense it is aligned with all that we
mentioned previously in this video so we
make less money but also we make almost
third of the maximum drawdown we do this
with half the trades same average trade
but now because of the low drawdown even
though we are making less money we are
seven to one and return to draw down
ratio we don't sacrifice the win rate of
the strategy and we increase our profit
Factor two two and a half the second
Market regime is the normal volatility
this is the yellow bar and we can see
this is the lowest average trade low
number of Trades so we make less money
but we have a higher drawdown than the
original strategy and finally this is
the high volatility Market regime we are
making almost the same amount of money
but now our maximum drawdown is even
higher than the original and that's why
we have 2.3 return to draw down ratio
now we can use this indicator to filter
the normal volatility Market regime and
then our RSI strategy will only trade in
low volatility and high volatility so
this is our original strategy and if we
exclude the normal volatility so we
lower the net profit from 180 to 165 but
our drawdown did not change now if we
notice the indicator it is three states
and it matches the evix index by going
up and and down but we can see clearly
that even though this is red and this is
red and this is red they are not all at
the same level so there is another way
to use this filter which is a rising
volatility and a falling volatility from
all the information that we mentioned in
the beginning of the video we know that
when the VIX Index is falling usually
the S P 500 is drifting up so it makes
sense then that we test if this
indicator falling then we take the RSI
tray although I mentioned the
fundamental reason why the RSI strategy
should perform better in a falling
volatility regime still I would like to
test the rising volatility regime so
this is the original strategy and if I
compile with the rising volatility
regime we can see now we are making 89
000 with 45
000 maximum drawdown so we definitely
reduce the profits to almost half and we
increased our maximum drawdown by almost
half and now let's use the condition of
the following volatility regime so that
means we will only go along using the
RSI 2 below 30 if the volatility is
falling so if we compile
and now we can see we're making less
money but also our drawdown is 20. and
of course we increase our return to draw
down ratio so using the trade analysis
we are making 244 trades making almost
600 on average per trade so using the
falling volatility it's better than
using the state regime which is only
trading in lower volatility our Equity
curve is amazing I mean look how smooth
is this curve if you are a regular
viewer of the channel you know how I
love this strategy and I have many
versions of it in my portfolios and in
fact I am building a big template with
the right filters for this strategy
alone so keep an eye on this channel to
see when you can get it to learn more
make sure to watch this video and I will
see you there
thank you
[Music]
