most likely you reach this video by
searching for scalping strategy and in
this video I will show you how to build
a successful sculping strategy on the
NASDAQ 100 hello everyone my name is Ali
Casey from stat Oasis Channel and I know
YouTube is filled with sculping strategy
sculping usually means that you are
trading on a lower time frame Traders
love this because they think holding for
a shorter period of time remove the RIS
away which which is not true but we are
not here to debate that in this video in
fact sculping is one of the biggest
reason why most Traders lose money
because usually you're trying to capture
a small move so you need to be highly
highly accurate and very low on slippage
in order to capture this 10 Pips 15 Pips
or 15 cents on stocks or two tickes in
Futures you have to be right all the
time very focused no slippage and it's
very hard to do since stat channel is
about alga trading so I will show you
how alga Traders approach sculping so
here is the NASDAQ 100 Futures and this
is the daily time frame you can see it's
all over the place and if I go to 1 hour
again it's all over the place there is
nothing to gain here so you definitely
need to put some indicators and so on so
forth to find a strategy that you can
follow to sculpt this so here is where I
differ from my would say 90% of
YouTubers where most of them put some
indicator support and resistance F
retracements and try to squeeze you down
in a certain window and then they tell
you to take the trade here and oh by the
way you have to put 3 to one you risk
one unit and you expect to gain three
because you know the market will usually
listen to the trader who is placing the
trade which of course it doesn't work
that way so the way we will build the
strategy to today is purely on the nasda
characteristics you see every Market has
some nuances to its price structure what
I mean is every Market have some
patterns that do repeat over time for
many reasons fundamental because of
Traders because of the way it's
structured and so on and so forth but
every Market has certain characteristics
and you can exploit those
characteristics to your advantage and
that's what we are doing here when we
are trying to sculp the NASDAQ Market if
you take my course the algo trading
Master Class you'll receive this tool
which gives you the characteristics of
each market I call it seasonality some
Traders call it pattern some call it
bias whatever you want to call it it's
basically the characteristics of this
Market on daily basis now you can do it
on daily you can do it on minute by
minute you can do it on hourly I find
that hourly it's the lowest that I can
go and find some meaningful pattern so
if we go to the heat map this shows us
the pattern of the NASDAQ entad day you
can see this is starting on Sunday night
and ending on Friday afternoon and it's
clearly that the trend is up Monday to
middle of Wednesday then we go down and
then we do nothing and then Friday we
dip and go up and I can see this in
another way so if I look here at the
average per hour what's every hour
making you can see that I can easily for
example draw Tuesday here and I can see
I can make $57 on average by holding
from Midnight to 800 a.m. now you might
think that this is overfit but really
every Market has a certain pattern some
of them for two hours some of them for
two days and some of them have multiple
patterns and you can use this tool alone
to build multiple strategies without any
indicators of course we can add
indicators later on as filters but this
is just pure on time basis so the NASDAQ
has about four to five patterns
depending on how you want to look at it
I will show you the simplest one and the
most profitable one this is strategy
Quant X it's a data mining package but
I'm using the Alo wizard module to build
the strategy at as per my instructions
and the pattern of the NASDAQ is this so
we are going long on Monday at 4:00 a.m.
and exiting Wednesday at 2 p.m. that is
it this is the pattern now you can play
with the hours before and after before
and after the changes are not that big
and it doesn't matter so uh I'm sticking
with this this is based on the tool that
I just showed you because it showed me
that this is where the trend starts and
ends so I'm using trade station engine
for the NASDAQ futures this is the
24-hour Nasdaq futures and uh it's the
hourly time frame from January 1st 2009
till November 1st 2023 you can see here
there is another time frame which is the
NASDAQ
daily and for now we are not using this
so just leave it alone and I'm putting
the slippen Commission in one so it's
seven and a half per trade so $15 in and
out we are using only one contract and
if we run a full back test this is the
strategy we have
741
trades and the open Draw down is about
26% on average our trade is
$400 the win rate is 57 and based on
this the compounding annual rate is huge
27.7 especially when you consider that
the open Draw down is 25 so the pattern
is amazing and you can see it's working
all years uh the only losing year is
2018 but uh in any case 2023 is doing
very well so far this is the equity
chart and we have here about 2 years of
stagnation and this is the trade
analysis and let me change this to win
loss profit by month so we can compare
because I want to show you something
something so you see May here we have
more losers than winners so 32 trades
were winners 35 trades were losers also
this is confirmed by the profit and loss
so in may we lost
$76,000 and we win
$499,000 so may is a good month to
filter out because it's confirmed by the
number of Trades and by the win rate so
we can easily remove May from this and
even make more money enhance the
strategy but in any case this is the raw
strategy and is doing fine now the power
of strategy Quant X is I can add a
filter easily here so for example I can
add the RSI 5 is lower than 35 this is a
filter now I'm using this remember I
showed you the second time frame which
is the daily time frame so I'm using the
RSI on the daily time frame so if I
confirm this and let's see if this makes
any change so we have 741 trades and if
we run full back test you can see it's a
huge effect now overall did this makes
our strategy Better or Worse we have to
check it out and see the effect but what
I'm trying to show you is just the
filter but now the power of sqx is here
so you can imagine now how many versions
of this I can do there are literally
thousands of versions so here we can do
something really nice we can switch this
strategy to a template and once it is a
template I can add a random
condition on The Daily time
frame so now this is the random
condition on The Daily time frame then I
can go to Builder and load the strategy
as a template so once it's loaded as a
template I can only play with this
condition so here I'm asking it to add
one condition to this entry remember
this is the strategy I cannot add a
condition here because there's nothing
available I just added here so this is
the only effect on the strategy so what
I'm telling sqx is add one condition
only to the entry so I save this and we
go to building blocks and I picked all
the indicators available and the
patterns and the
blocks and this doesn't matter so we are
entering so we will enter on a market
order and we are using one contract we
are not doing any cross check and this
is simple ranking profit Factor 1 three
return to draw down is four and I'm
building 100 strategies so I'm asking it
to go and add random filters here here
and check that they pass this criteria
and give me the top 100 and this should
be done in
seconds so it's done and if I want to
sort by net profit so the best one is
311 this is the strategy and if I want
to sort by return to draw down ratio so
this one makes 27 return to draw down so
this is is making
107 and if I want to assert by winning
rate this is 75% win rate and if I want
to sort by average trade this is making
1253 per trade and but remember it's
only 35 trades so you can see you can
pick and choose which one is the best
now here is a big concept that most
Traders don't know especially new
traders that you see all these
strategies are built on the same concept
The Edge is there from 4: to 2:00 p.m.
on Wednesday so now every filter I'm
adding is just enhancing the strategy in
a different way so some of them are
making high win rate some of them making
high average trade some of them making
lower draw down some of them increasing
the net profit so you can see you can
pick and choose which one or you can
combine 5 six up to 10 because we have a
micro contract for the NASDAQ which is
one0 of the E mini contract but now you
can combine High win rate high average
trade lower draw down high return to
draw down and so on and so forth you can
pick your criteria that you want to
combine in this portfolio and here is
the pseudo code so this is just plain
English code uh so for example I picked
this one this is the highest average
trade and you can see the filter is it's
the same we're entering at 4 exiting at
2 p.m. Wednesday and this is Osa of
subchart sub chart is the daily chart uh
crosses zero blah blah blah and then if
I pick the next one you can see this is
bearish fractal 5 two bars ago this is
linear regression so you can see all of
them are simple filters now for example
if I sort by wind rate so this is the
75% win rate again this is the custom
block and this one is the H moving
average and you see how simple it is I'm
only adding a single filter to the entry
that's it there is no stop- loss no
profit Target no optimization nothing
I'm just adding a simple filter and that
is the power of sqx with a single line n
of code with a single line of user
interface I added a random condition and
now I have easily 100 strategies with
100 different filters that achieve
different results and because my Edge my
original Edge is raw that means it's not
overfit I just picked it up from the
anomaly in this market I can easily and
confidently add a filter of course you
still have to do the robustness testing
which is a full module in my algo
trading master class so now let me show
you how I can combine more of these
strategies into a portfolio now this
code here is the plain English code and
if you click on easy language you you
will get the easy language code so you
can see all this you can just copy it
and paste it in trade station the only
disadvantage here is there is a lot of
code that is not used because this is a
template so sqx in order to be
compatible with trade station they build
this template so instead of taking this
template and basically almost 70% of it
is not used I code my own strategy in
trade station or multicharts but you can
still take this strategy and it will do
just the same like I told you I coded my
strategy directly in trade station for
the Simplicity because easy language is
extremely simple I can I can achieve the
same thing literally in three lines of
code the page you saw in sqx uh that's
not a problem in sqx that's just the
power of easy language but what I did is
I didn't combine the 10 filters just
like I told you which of course you
totally can do and you can build an
emble and you can actually build a
voting system there are many ways to go
about this but what I will show you here
is combining four patterns from the
NASDAQ Market remember the Excel sheet
that I show you in the beginning I told
you there are four to five patterns so I
combine four patterns here on the same
chart those patterns they don't overlap
so each one happening in a different day
different time so they all use the same
amount of money without overlapping the
only issue here is two of my patterns
overlap because one of them end at a
time and the other one start at the same
time so when there is a holiday this
usually get messed up and so I miss some
trades but you know it's all in all I
miss only 10 trades out of 1,700 so it's
negligible here we are in trade station
and I'm going to show you the four
strategies and here are the four
patterns so from one to four zero is
combining all the patterns so strategy
number one is the one I showed you
Monday at 4 a.m. to Wednesday at 2 p.m
it's making
$322,000 including commission and
slippage which is
$15 the draw down is
$227,000 but what I want to show you is
these strategies are not created the
same so you see that the average bars in
winners for strategy one is 57 because
it's Monday to Wednesday but then these
are very short strategies and and
strategy number four is the shortest
it's holding only five bars on average
in winners and in losers five bars this
is an hourly bar so this is five hours
and that's why you see the different
amount of dollars in because this one
has more time to work and this one has
the least time to work but now we come
to the most important part which I
always push to all traders to all my
students in the community everywhere I
go I push this which is never trade as
single strategy always trade a portfolio
and here is another way to show it so
you see number zero this is all the
strategies combined the profits are
added together so although this is not
exactly the total like I told you there
is a simple overlap these are 10 trades
more than this so these comes to 1488
trades the that will not make a huge
effect it's like $110,000 so we're
making 512 so basically we're adding all
the profits but look at the draw down
our portfolio draw down is
23,800 but strategy number one alone the
draw down is 27,000 so that's the beauty
of the portfolio you add all the profits
but you don't add all the draw Downs if
anything you reduce the draw down
because some of the profits will overlap
the other draw downs and that's why you
see the maxim Maxum draw down here is 23
Which is less than 27 because some of
these strategies the profits are
affecting this draw down on the positive
side and this is the equity curve of the
four strategies and if we go by year so
since 2019 we had a huge run and
actually most of this run Is 2020 the co
year but all in all we are climbing up
and if we look at the periodical returns
we see all years are positive we have
660 minus in 2006 2400 in 2007 4,300 in
2011 so far this year we are 69 trades
with
$34,000 so the average was
$55 per trade this year so that means
the portfolio is still performing very
well of course not as well as the
2020 or 2022 but still it's very
respectable return to learn more about
seasonal patterns watch this video and I
will see you
[Music]
there
