as a Trader most likely you've heard of
the term scale in and scale out
basically when your strategy issue an
order instead of buying the full
position you divide it into portions and
then you buy Those portions separately
the idea is to get a better price than
the original full position price now
this scale in and scale out is totally
different than position sizing which is
buying the full position when the order
is issued and then buying another full
position when the price goes in your
favor and the difference is huge between
the two and I will show you this
difference in this video but first let's
focus on testing the scalein methodology
and I think you'll be surprised at the
results so what is scalein in trading
basically you want to divide your full
position into portions and you use Those
portions to enter your strategy on
separate uh conditions for example let's
say you want to have three portions to
scale in
so let's say you're buying a 100 shares
of stock X and instead of buying 100
shares when the order is generated you
buy 33 shares and then when the
conditions lined up again or goes
against you or whatever your conditions
are you buy another 33 shares and then
when the conditions line up again for
the third time you buy 34 shares so by
then you will have a full position which
is 100 sh the idea is you're averaging
the price to get in so let's say when
you get in the price goes against you so
that second portion will bring the price
the average price down so basically you
get an average price better than the
original price so the idea when you are
scaling in always happens when the price
goes against you when the price goes in
your favor usually you are adding
another full position and that the
position sizing method which is you
enter with 100 shares the price goes in
your favor you are making money now and
then you buy another full position or
maybe half the position but you're
always starting with a full position and
of course the best way to illustrate
this is with an example so let's do that
so here I have the S&P 500 E mini
Futures and added on the price chart is
the RSI 2 strategy and this is the RSI 2
indicator so when the price goes below
25 we buy and when the price go above 75
we sell there is no stop loss no profit
Target no filters and you can see these
are the trades so the strategy is doing
very well so far in 20124 this is the
strategy performance we have
$183,000 since 2006 with
3.43 return to draw down ratio and 338
trades 77 win per with an average trade
of 541 and now we will test this scale
in methodology so basically when the
price of the RSI 2 goes below 25 we buy
one contract and then if the RSI 2 below
25 and the close is lower than the
original entry by a certain percentage
we will buy another contract so then we
will have basically the full position
which is two in this case so four at the
strategy to have a maximum of two
positions and now we need to decide on
the scale in percent so remember the
price has to be lower than the entry so
lower by how much we can decide to go by
Dollar volatility points percent there
are a million methodology to do it so I
decide to do it in perc so let's start
with 1% so that means if the price go 1%
below our entry we will buy our second
position to a maximum of two so let's
see the uh strategy and let's check the
performance and now we have
463 trades with an average of $600 75%
win rate and let's look at the
performance 278,000 instead of 183 and
3.3 to uh return to draw down so here is
an example of two positions so let's
bring the calculator to test so this is
the first entry and we can check the buy
happened at
4,703 so 4703 and since we are looking
for 1% down we will multiply the price
by
.99 so that means we need to buy if the
RSI to below 25 and the close go below
4655 97 so let's call it
4656 and if we come here where first all
the price the RSI is below
225 and then the price is we buy at 461
1975 so definitely below this price so
here is another example we enter here
4362 so 4362 * .99 remember we are
looking for 1% below so we're looking
for a price
4318 and uh RSI below 25 so here RSI
below 25 and here we buy at
43027 so again we know the code is
working properly and now we can go
forward now in stocks and ETF cfds and
also in Forex it's a lot easier to do
scal in and position sizing because you
can divide and actually crypto is the
same thing but in Futures we only have e
Min futures or the full contract which
is very expensive or the micro Futures
and the micro Futures are not available
for all Futures and the micro Futures is
10th the original contract so we go
instead of one e mini contract we can
buy 10 Micro contracts so now I will
optimize this strategy on the Emi S&P
500 uh with positions from 1 to 10 to
see what we get so here is our strategy
and we will optimize the position
from 1 to 10 step one because 10
represent one e contract although I'm
still trading the e but just to get an
idea and then the percent is from 0.25
to
3% uh with a step of 0.25 so that gives
us
120 combinations and here is what we get
let's look at the 3D graph and let me
maximize this so this is we are looking
at the net profit and this is the per 10
so from 0 to three and this side is the
maximum position so 1 to 10 now remember
although this is red remember the simple
one this one the the lowest point is
$180,000 so net profit is not an issue
here we are just looking at the stable
area and this is a slope like there is a
although it's a smooth slope slope I
mean here we have a bigger slope I guess
than this side so this side is better
than this side so if we focus on this
area maybe so maybe a percent between 8
and4 and a position sizing between 6 and
8 this looks to me as this table region
if we go back to the
spreadsheet so this is our original
strategy the position is one so when the
position is one it doesn't matter the
percent so that's why they're all the
same values so it's
183 and average trade 540 something with
77 win per. now uh we can decide now
which one I mean we found the stable
area the return to draw down is 343 so
if I sort by return to draw down this is
551 so definitely much better so 343 was
is this one so we can say that we have a
about 20
strategies that is doing better than the
original in terms of return to draw down
now we know we're going to make more
money because obviously we are using
more contracts because remember I'm
using still the es the top one is 5.5
return to draw down it's making
744 th000 the if I do this on the micro
this will be divided by 10 so this will
be 74,000 000 remember the original
strategy was doing what was doing 183 so
although we make less money but we make
better return to draw down so if your
concern is the draw down then definitely
the scale
in uh strategy will be better but if
you're looking for higher net profit and
in this case it will be a lot higher
then uh the scalein methodology will not
work so this concludes part one of the
this test where we know now scale in
position produce better return to draw
down ratio CU basically you are
averaging the price getting in and
that's why you are reducing the draw
down most of the times and if you repeat
this test on multiple strategies you
will reach this conclusion most of the
time you will reduce your draw down but
the compromise is you also reduce your
net profit now in this case the net
profit destroyed like and we went from
180 to about 70 but sometimes you just
reduce the net profit probably by 20%
while reducing the maximum draw down by
maybe 50% so sometimes it works now the
same methodology can be used as position
sizing so instead of uh trading your
strategy with one contract well now I
want to make more money so how do I make
more money usually is with position
sizing this this is think of this like
you are a very good driver and you go
from a sedan car to a sport car the
sport car drives much faster hugs the
road when you turn and so on and so
forth so it's meant to drive fast but of
course you need to be a very good driver
and usually I stay away from position
sizing because it's very dangerous
especially for new Traders you can
easily blow up your account so first of
all I want to emphasize that do not
introduce position sizing while you are
testing the strategy the strategy has to
be already robust and then you introduce
position sizing so in this case we know
the RSI 2 is very robust so let me show
you what this means if this was a
position sizing method meaning I'm
adding full positions every time the
price goes against me so same logic same
everything and it's just I'm going to
show you what does that mean and how do
you compare it so let's say for example
we are going to pick this strategy so
this strategy has eight uh maximum
positions and the scaling percent is 0.5
we are making 645 blah blah blah so let
me pick this strategy and as you can see
now this is what it looks like so you
can see here we are adding one one so
this is 2 3 4 uh five and six so this is
trade 48 and here we have we see we have
eight positions
so these position 1 2 3 are losing
positions and then 4 5 6 7 8 are winning
positions and this is how we are going
to compare so on the right here this
strategies using eight contracts when
the RSI 2 below 25 we buy eight
contracts and this strategy using a
maximum of eight
contracts to buy into a position so a
lot of a lot of times we'll buy one or
two or three but maximum is eight and
obviously this one's making more money
because you're always buying eight cont
the return to draw down ratio is 3.43
it's exactly like the original strategy
because instead of buying one we are
buying uh eight so it's basically just
multiplying by eight and but here we
have a better return to draw down 478
and then a huge difference in annual
period analysis so here we in 2018 we
have about
193,000 uh draw down and 20120 with
28,000 and here we only have $2 2009
about $1,400 so that's negligible so
this is a huge Plus for using this
position sizing methodology and finally
when we look at the curve we can see how
this is a huge difference so remember
2018 2020 was a huge draw down here and
here it doesn't it's just a single line
and it's a lot shallower so that's
definitely better so overall yes I am
making less money here but a much better
return to draw down ratio and a much
better Equity curve now although we are
making more than double the money here
than this one but remember we are using
more Capital here here every time we're
buying we're buying eight contracts so
that means we need more Capital here
than here because in this strategy some
the maximum is eight contracts most of
the times we're not buying eight
contracts and we can check this Capital
efficiency over here so if we look at
these ratios look at this so the net
profit as percent of largest loss that
means we are making seven times the
amount of money than the largest loss
while here the net profit is 25 times
the largest loss also although this is
very small sharp ratio here is 2 here
is26 annualized 92 annualized here is 7
so again this is an indication of a
lower volatility but also much better
Capital efficiency so the key takeaways
are both ways are better than the
original if you scale in into your
position by using portions and adding to
the original entry you will enhance your
return to draw down rate ratio but you
will reduce your profitability if you
are looking for higher net profit then
usually the scaling method will not do
well and if you're looking to grow your
account exponentially usually you do
that with position sizing but the
caveats are as follows first of course
you need to have the capital to run a
position sizing because remember when
you increase the positions you need more
Capital the second caveat which is the
most important is you only layer the
position sizing on a robust strategy
don't test position sizing while you are
testing the strategy that's not a good
because usually the position sizing will
hide all the crap in that strategy will
make it look better but it's usually the
position sizing that's doing the job so
you should start with a robust strategy
that means you take the strategy through
all your robustness testing once the
strategy is robust stable then you can
layer on top position sizing and don't
go crazy like I just showed you with
eight contracts start with two or three
maximum just to get a feel of it because
the swings will be bigger yes the return
to draw down ratio will be better but in
terms of the amount of money it will be
bigger so the percentage will be smaller
but the amount of money will be bigger
and thus psychologically will be harder
to do to learn more about the RSI
strategy watch this video and I will see
you there
[Music]
