nr7 is a term coined by Toby krabble
back in 1990 in his book day trading
with shortterm price pattern the book
was so good that Toby Crable later on
bought most of the copies that were
printed still there are few printed
copies left around and you can buy them
on the Internet for about
$8,000 per copy now fortunately for us
that there are million and billion
digital copies available online which is
unfortunate for Toby krabble but we
don't need to feel sorry for him he run
a very successful hedge fund with about7
and5 billion dollars under management
also the book is 34 years old so I'm
sure by now Toby CRA will have
reiterated on these patterns many many
more times n R7 stands for narrow range
seven bars basically we are looking for
a day where where it is the lowest range
compared to the past six bars so it's
the lowest range in seven bars now do
not confuse this with nr4 which is lower
range for four bars that means the range
is getting smaller every Bar n r s is
looking for a narrow range in the
previous seven bars now why this pattern
is successful because it identify a
period of low volatility usually the
market flows from low volatility to high
volatility and then back to low
volatility so if we can pinpoint those
points where the market might shift to
higher volatility then we have an edge
Now Toby Crable combined this pattern
with his open range breakout although in
this video I'm going to skip that part
because I want to make this very very
simple for anybody to employ it so we
are just going to identify the neural
range bar and then buy on the market the
next day to find a profitable strategy
and to illustrate this pattern let's
look at the following chart so at the
bottom here I have the range of every
bar so for example this bar the high is
51
725 the low is
5115 75 so as you see the range is 55.5
points and if we go down to this we can
see it's the ATR equal 55.5 now ATR
stands for average through range in this
case uh my indicator is flexible so I'm
measuring not the average through range
it's just the range and it's over one
bar there is no average and when you
look at this indicator you can plot this
indicator in any charting platform and
then basically what you are looking is
the lowest point in the past seven bars
so you can easily do this visually like
you can count for example this bar here
this low is the lowest of 1 2 3 4 5 6
and 7 it's even lower than eight bars so
this point here this is the lowest and
we can see here it's highlighted so the
yellow bars here are highlighting the
narrow range in the previous seven bars
now as you can see most of the times you
will get several bars in a row that's
what I'm saying is usually the
volatility shrinks and expands in lumps
it doesn't happen in single bars so this
time here this bar is the lowest than
the past seven bars so this one is lower
than even this one and then again here
and again here same thing happens here
same thing happens here so this is for
illustration and now we can construct a
strategy that will buy the next bar when
we find this pattern and now the
strategy is applied so basically every
time we encounter a narrow range that is
the narrowest of the seven bars
including this bar so this bar compared
to the previous six bars then we will
buy next bar and I have a fixed exit of
three bars so we are holding for three
bars so every time it happens I buy next
bar exit after three bars and so on so
forth I'm doing this on the S&P 500 long
only so here we can see the strategy
Equity chart and the number of Trades is
422 with an average of
$174 now compared to the many strategies
that I did on this channel on the S&P
500 this is not a wonderful strategy I
mean it's profitable but we have many uh
strategies that are better than this one
but still it's a good start now first
thing we are going to do is optimize the
look back period and the holding bars
now I'm going to optimize between 5 and
10 so I'm comparing the current bar to
the previous five six all the way to 10
also I'm going to hold the trade between
1 day and 10 days so total we have 60
combinations and here are the results
sorted by return to draw down this is
our original strategy we are comparing
the current bar to the previous six and
we're holding for 3 days and when we are
sorting by return to draw down the
strategy is number 35 so we can find a
better strategy obviously holding more
days will produce more profits but also
if we compare to more bars we get better
results so this is six and then all
these are better so uh comparing to the
previous 9 8 10 which makes sense
because that means we are taking longer
period to shrink the volatility and all
these are very close in terms of
performance they're all in the 60s
except for this one and then all of them
making hundred and something th000 the
average trade is really good remember we
had 170 originally and just by
increasing the number of bars we can get
much better results now since I will use
a filter to enhance the strategy I'm
going to look for more trades so maybe
this one is good so we are comparing the
current bar to the previous eight bars
and if it's the lowest range we will buy
and we will exit after four bars uh that
will give us 336 trades with an average
of $382
now this optimization uses my market
regime filters my market regime filters
are proprietary code and they are given
to my algo trading master class students
they are basically Direction and
volatility filters and I have about
240 patterns using uh these filters so
if I sort by return to draw down and we
can easily find much better strategies
using using a single position with a
filter so for example look at this even
though we are making same amount of
money but we slashed our draw down by a
lot same thing here we're making almost
same amount of money but we slash our
draw down but we have strategies that
are making more money and still our
return to draw down is better than the
original if you are a regular viewer of
the channel you know I usually say
mostly on the top is volatility filters
and in this case uh it's not obviously
because our entry is based on volatility
so that's why the volatility filter is
the same basically it will not do
anything because we're already using a
volatility filter to enter which is the
neuro range and so that's why well
obviously you don't know but I can tell
you none of these top strategies using a
volatility filter they are all using a
directional filter and now I optimize
the strategy using pattern filters so
these are multibar pattern and again
this is our original strategy with a
single position making 128 and 3.4
return to draw down and if we sort again
return to draw down again we can make a
better strategy just by using a filter
which is no surprise uh as we know this
already so for example this filter which
is making more money better return to
draw down ratio and better average trade
it's actually better than everything
this is looking at the weekly bars and
making sure that on on the weekly side
we are also shrinking so that's is just
checking last week was also a lower
volatility week meaning the range of the
week is lower so again these are simple
filters I mean there is you cannot
optimize these filters it's just fix
it's binary and finally I'm going to
show you time filter so this is our
original strategy again single position
and if we sort by return to draw down
again we can find many patterns doing
better and this pattern again is very
simple we are making better return to
draw down better average trade better
win percent profit Factor everything is
better in this filter and of course we
are making more money and the filter
again is extremely simple this filter
will only allow trades in the last week
of the month again this should not come
as a surprise I've done videos where I
showed you that there is a tendency for
the US indexes to make money at the end
of the month due to fundamental reasons
because of the hedge funds and window
dressing and so on and so forth doesn't
matter that pattern exists for the past
20 years and usually end of the month is
a drift up let's say higher than normal
so it makes sense we are going long and
volatility shrinking and if that
coincides with the end of the month then
it's like we're getting double wammy so
that's why the pattern performs much
better in all uh metrics this is the
chart of the trading
last week of the month with this pattern
and let's see trade analysis 300 trades
470 on average annual period analysis is
still all good so all in all it's a very
good filter the key takeaway here is the
nr7 pattern it still works after 34
years since it was printed it doesn't
matter who trades the market AI humans
doesn't matter who bubbles no bubbles
there will always be expansion in
volatility and contraction in volatility
and if you can pinpoint those uh times
then you can make money off of them to
learn more about Toby crables pattern
watch this video and I will see you
there
[Music]
