ever thought you found the best trading
indicator only to get disappointed you
are not alone what if there was a way to
scientifically prove which indicator
truly rules them all welcome to another
episode of algo versus crap the series
where we cut through the noise with real
data if you've ever stumbled upon the
countless videos on YouTube testing
trading strategies with mediocre methods
like manually analyzing 100 trades on a
single instrument and a single time
frame then you know it's time for a
change and I am here to make this change
today's indicator that's going through
this rigorous test is Williams R this
isn't just a review of Williams R
indicator but it is a rigorous test on
Williams r on multiple markets different
speeds different exits to find out if it
is good enough to use it in our
strategies plus we will be comparing it
to other indicators that we did in
previous test so don't forget to check
the algo versus crop playlist in the
description below Williams are developed
by the trader Larry Williams he's an
accomplished Trader and he developed
many indicators this is one of them it
is kind of similar to stochastic where
we are comparing the close relative to
the highest high and lowest low in
previous period the indicator ranges
between 0 and minus 100 and this is kind
of unusual for an indicator so an
oversold value will be minus 75 and an
overboard value will will be minus 25
there are no positive values in the
Williams R indicator and here is the
formula the highest high of a previous
period minus the close divided by the
highest high of the same period minus
the lowest low of the same period
multiplied by minus 100 so this is an
example if this line is the highest high
represented by this one and the red line
is the lowest low representing this low
and currently we have this close imagine
we have these values so the highest high
is 100 the lowest low is 90 and
currently the close is 92 so the
equation will be as follows the highest
high which is 100us 92 our current close
divided by the highest high 100 minus
the lowest low which is 90 * - 100 and
if you resolve this equation currently
we have minus 80 that means currently we
are in oversold and of course we can see
it from the the picture it's overs so
and this is how it looks like on the
chart so here I have the futures of the
S&P 500 and at the bottom we have the
Williams R indicator So currently this
is a 20 bar look back so these bars are
representing daily time frame So
currently we are looking at the previous
20 days and here I have below 75 as
oversold and above - 25 as overbought
remember it's from 0 to - 100 now the
indicator as all oscillators can be used
in two ways either as a mean reversion
strategy where we buy when the price is
over sold and we short when the price is
overbought or we can use it as a
breakout strategy so we sell we short
basically when the price is oversold and
we go long we buy when the price is
overbought but since we are trading the
S&P 5 100 we will use it as a miror
version strategy to go along when it is
oversold so this strategy currently with
the 20 bars look back andus 75 and minus
25 are the levels we have 87 trades with
$737 on average our performance we are
making
$64,000 with 1.2 return to draw down
ratio this is how the strategy looks
like and here is the annual returns now
we are going to optimize the strategy so
the look back we will go from 5 to 25
step five and then the oversold from- 65
to - 95 step Min -5 and overboard from
-5 to - 35 with a step of -5 so overall
we have 245 combinations these are the
results and let's look at at the 3D
graph So currently we are looking at the
oversold values and the overboard values
so the overbo is where we are exiting
and the oversold is where we are
entering and then the z-axis is the net
profit and currently this level is about
150,000 and here we have the look back
period so this is number five and
obviously all of them are profitable I
mean even This Thread this is about
100,000 and this is beautiful uh stable
area and if we look at the other values
so this is 10 it's currently below
15 again 20 below 25 below all of them
are below so five is the best but
remember even 25 is still profitable but
it's around 50,000 so five is the best
value and then for
entry we have from -65 all the way to -
90 and then for exit I would say between
-20 and -5
and this area is all stable area so if
we go back to the
spreadsheet and if we sort by return to
draw down we can see the top is all five
as we saw from the graph and any
strategy will be good so for example
this one it's uh average trade 721
273 uh trades but now we're making about
200,000 and if we look at this strategy
this is the periodical return it's much
better than before the graph of course
again is much better and the trade
analysis great now that we understand
how williams R indicator works we tested
on a single instrument of course it
works very well matching the style to
the S&P 500 will always work we know
this from many many other videos on the
channel now we are going to take it
through rigorous testing in the algo
versus crap workflow the workflow for
algo versus crap is as follows first we
tune every indicator two four speeds
extremely fast fast normal and slow the
extremely fast speed will deliver 400
trades or more in a 10-year period and
then the next speed will deliver 300
trades the next speed will deliver 200
and the slowest speed will deliver about
a00 trades per 10 years now I do this so
I don't optimize as the best values for
the indicator but I do it to optimize it
for this number of strategies so I can
easily compare with other oscillator
next we test Direction so we will test
long separately from short again this
will deliver a focus result on the Pure
Performance of the long side and the
short side number three in the workflow
is strategy type we will use mirr
reversion and Breakout so like I showed
you in the screen we can use the
oscillator to buy the oversold or we can
use it to go short when it's oversold so
it's either meere reversion or breakout
now why do we do this because the me
reversion strategy is exactly the
opposite of the breakout strategy so I'm
not depending on matching the indicator
with the instrument like in this case
I'm matching it with the S&P 500 because
I'm testing different markets and I
don't know which one will work number
four we have exits I am testing three
exits exit number one is the first day
so we enter and then we exit the same
day exit number two is four bars so we
enter and then we exit after four bars
exit number three is a stop- loss and
profit Target only and the stop loss is
4
atrs while the profit Target is 2 atrs
and I do this so that they don't overlap
and we get you know some uh weird trades
and finally point five in the workflow
is the market we will test all these
combinations on 66 different markets the
66 Futures markets are in different
sectors they are in agriculture crypto
currency energy Equity index and meats
metals and softs so the combinations of
the exits the entries the direction the
multiple markets will give every
indicator more than 3,000 strategies so
that is really good statistical number
to base our conclusions on especially
when we can compare it to other 3,000
strategies per indicator so to give you
an idea about the data that I collected
so far it's 22 indicators tested on 66
markets using the workflow steps that I
mentioned and total currently is about
70,000 strategies with above 13 million
trades and of course that is a huge
database that we can easily conclude
which indicator is doing the best so if
I filter for Williams only we get
364 strategies about a million trades
this is only covering Williams up so the
top rows that are in dark blue are only
for Williams R and the bottom for the
light blue are for the whole data
So currently Williams R represent 4 and
a half% of the number of strategies of
the whole database and
7.2% of the whole number of Trades now
these strategies are not fully developed
strategies I'm only testing the edge of
the indicator in a certain speed certain
direction so remember we are using it to
go long and short me reversion and
breakout and using different exits so we
are not using the same indicator to exit
we're exiting either on the same day
which will produce obviously low profit
and after four bars that will produce
better profits and the stop loss and
profit Target the idea is to gauge the
edge of the indicator instead of you
know building a strategy because now
once we have this Edge we can rank it
with all the other indicators and then
we can take that indicator and build
strategies based on our finding now out
of the 70,000 strategies that are in the
database only about 3,000 strategies
past my robustness filters now I know
this is not a fully developed strategy
but still you can judge if the edge is
good or not so I'm taking the edge
through a robustness filter to make it
pass or fail and only 3,000 pass the
test and this is the database of the
past strategy so as you can see we have
2,951 strategies that pass the
robustness filter this robustness filter
is only for the edge those 3,000
strategies produce about half a million
trades so we still very well in terms of
numbers now at the top here we have the
williamsr results we have 169 strategies
out of the 3,000 that passed the Rob
buness filter that represents
6% of the total number of strategies
that pass the filter and the trades
represent about 9% of the total trades
that pass and at the top here I have the
ranking system for all the indicators
that I posted so far in the algo versus
Craft series so we did Ballinger bands
KCC indicator CCI macd RSI stochastic
and Williams R and like I told you I
already tested 2 indicators not all of
them are posted on the channel but
currently Williams are sit at number
three in fact none of the videos I
posted so far is in number one and two
because I didn't post yet number one and
two but currently Williams R sit at
number three which is really really good
and by the way my indicator KCC percent
sits at number five now what does this
mean so to give you idea this is the
average performance of the strategy so
you can see we have return to draw down
of
3.8 with a net profit average of
53,000 average maximum draw down of
15,000 average trade per year of 20 60%
win rate average trade of 289 and so on
so forth this again is not a strategy
these numbers are based on the three
exits and remember one of them is exit
the same same day also you can see the
variety in Williams art so these numbers
at the top here are only for Williams
are robust strategies so we have 82 me
reversion and 87 breakout so they are
almost split in the middle 105 long 64
short so this is almost 2 to one and the
these are the exit look at this exit end
of day 69 exit end of day so even though
we are exiting the same day I have 69
exits end of day that are robust enough
to pass the filters and then I have 84
exit after four bars and 16 only that
using the stop- loss and profit Target
and this is a little different from the
average of all other indicator you can
see the average of the other indicators
the mirror versions are more than the
breakout and the long are a little bit
more than the shorts so with Williams
are the Longs are a lot more than shorts
and the breakout are more than the miror
version and then for the exit exit end
of day usually does better on average
but on our Williams indicator the exit
after four bars is the best the takeaway
Williams R is one of the best indicators
to use it for Mir version or breakout
strategies you need to match it to the
instrument remember to get better
results and as I showed you the first
example you can easily find a stable
area to trade on your instrument to
watch more episodes of algo versus crop
series watch this video and I will see
you there
[Music]
