moving average crossover strategy has to
the test of time really this strategy
been working for hundreds of years I
think aqr hedge fund did a study where
they found that TR following strategy
has been working for the past 800 years
I mean don't quote me on that but it's
definitely more than a 100 years I
didn't know anything about Trend
following strategies and in fact I paid
for a seminar for a trend following
strategy without knowing that it is a
trend following strategy this was like
20 years ago I paid
$2,500 which is like $2.5 million after
inflation in today's money but anyway I
attended with about maybe 50 people and
basically he showed us how the 21 Day
moving average cross over the 53 day
moving average we go long and then the
opposite we go short so that was my
intro to Trend following and I dumped
good money behind that strategy which of
course lost a lot of money and got wiped
out I really got to know Trend following
strategies when a fund manager
introduced me to a book the book is
complete Turtle Trader by Michael Kell
really this book opened my eyes about
alga trading and especially Trend
following strategies about a year later
I was introduced to another book that
really took it to the next step this
book basically takes the public results
by the hedge funds the trend following
hedge funds and he builds systems that
try to mimic the returns of those funds
without knowing the rules so basically
he builds like moving average crossover
system and he tried to find out what
period they are using and apply it on
the same universe that they are trading
and basically come up with the same
average returns that they are showing
per year so in this video I will take
one of the systems that he built in this
book which is the moving average
crossover and we will trade that on on a
currency pair so here we have a currency
pair which is the US dollar Japanese Yen
and this is a very trendy currency pair
and I plotted here two exponential
moving averages so we can see the
periods here it's 30 and 60 so basically
we want to go along when the 30 cross
over the 60 and we will go short when 30
cross below the 60 so here we R and this
is the JY future so basically this is
the Japanese Yen over the US dollar so
it's the opposite of the USD JPY and I
applied the strategy of the moving
average crossover so whenever the
shortterm moving average cross above the
long term we go long and the opposite we
go short so we are always in the mark
and this is the 30 over 60 it's an ugly
Equity curve I don't like this but
anyway Let's see we have 62 trades split
right in the middle this is for the past
17 years now we can easily optimize this
so here I will optimize the fast length
from 20 to 100 and the slow length from
40 to 200 in step of 10 so overall we
have 153 combinations and here are the
results sorted by return to draw down
ratio so at the top here we have 40 and
170 so when the 40 fast moving average
cross above the 170 we go long and when
it's below it we go short that produce
even lower trades so it's 31 trades now
but on average we're making
1519 if we want more trades then this is
90 trades which is 20 over 40 but we
make much less money because our average
trade now goes to 330 so we will
introduce two rules in order to make
this a proper system that hedge funds
use to trade their funds so first rule
we will introduce is the highest high
and lowest low so here I plotted the
highest high with a look back period of
50 this means that this line will always
be plotting the highest high of the past
50 Buzz so rule number one that we will
add that once the crossover happen we
need to wait for the high to cross the
highest high so that means when we have
something like this so in this case you
see this one so when this one happened
that means this High crossed over the
highest high so that's rule number one
the crossover happen and we have the
high crossing over the previous highest
high the second rule we will add is a
trailing stop so this trailing stop is
based on ATR so for example if we enter
at this bar here we will exit over here
because over here the price closed below
this trailing stop and if it happens
here that means we will enter again at
this highest high and then we will exit
at this bar when the price close below
this ATR let me switch off the moving
averages so you can easily see it so
remember the moving average here is
correct meaning the fast above the low
and then we enter here at the highest
high and then we exit here so as you can
see this ATR stop loss will decide how
long we stay in the trade so for example
if I increase this ATR to six you can
see that once we entered here we are
still in the trade until this B those
two rules will play a big role in
enhancing this strategy because
basically we are filtering the trend so
once the crossover happen we are waiting
for a confirmation which is the high to
break the previous highest high and we
will exit faster than when the moving
average cross below because now we're
exiting within trailing stop which is
faster than the moving average the fast
moving average Crossing below the moving
average so now we can optimize the
strategy with these parameters so first
we have the entry look back that means
how far we are looking for the highest
high and the lowest low so we will
optimize this from 10 to 70 step 10 the
ATR length I'm going to keep it fixed at
20 of course you can optimize that and
then the multiplier from 1 to five step
one and then I will also optimize the
fast length and the slow length the same
as we did before so overall we have
5,355 strategy and here are the results
sorted by return to draw down we can see
here this is this strategy is much
better it's making
$77,000 almost with about $27,000 draw
down the average trade is
$169 and this strategy is using 60
period for the fast uh exponential
moving average and 180 period for the
slow exponential moving average and the
ATR is of course 20 the look back the
multiplier is four this is for the stop
loss and then the highest high and the
lowest low that we are using to enter
short and long is 10 now the strategy
right below below it has 251 trades
which is much better because I'm sure
that I can add a filter for volatility
or direction to get this to a better
average trade but let me use this for
the example so here are the results of
this strategy we have 72 trades 28 long
44 short and very good average trade for
both so the short is doing much better
at about
$1,200 and the long about $880
now about 40 uh% win rate which is very
good for a trend following strategy in
fact the short side is doing really well
uh which is
52% now all hedge funds use a big
universe to trade the strategy so they
apply the strategy to let's say all
currencies in this case and they apply
it to Agriculture and indexes and so on
so forth so they usually trade like at
least 50 markets using the same strategy
and some variations of the strategy they
don't trade it on a single Market
because it's hard to find a lot of
Trends on a single Market every single
year but they also use position sizing
to enhance their returns when they find
a trend so I will show you a simple
method for position sizing this is one
of the simplest which is basically
restrict the strategy to use a fixed
position based on the volatility so at
the bottom here I have the ATR indicator
in dollars so what this is showing is
the amount in dollars that japanes and
Futures move in a day so for example at
this entry the short entry the average
ATR in dollars was
$1,425 so I will introduce another
variable that will restrict our position
sizing based on this volatility so this
this is the variable let's start with
2500 so basically I want my strategy to
build a position that should move on
average
$2500 up or down in any given day so
going back to our example here we can
see we are shorting two contracts so we
bring our calculator let's see how we
get there so at this point in time
before we took this position the day
before our ATR was 10 5750 and our risk
is 2500 so
2500 divided by 10
5750 we get 2.36 and since we cannot
trade fraction Futures at least for now
so we take the decimal so in this case
it's two so that's why we are trading
two now what does this mean this means
that in any given day after I take this
position on average
I should move within $2500 range so that
means I should go up 2500 or go down
2500 so I'm limiting my portfolio to
move up and down by 2500 now remember
this is a moving Target now we can take
another example let's see this one so
this one is short for so at this point
in time this is the entry so the day
before our atrn dollars is 545 so again
we divide 2500 which is the variable
that we assigned divided by
545 we get 4.58 again we take the
decimal which is four and that's why we
have four contracts like I said this is
very simple algorithm for position
sizing because let's say you start 10
years ago with
$100,000 and you are using
$2,500 for your algo to position size
and now let's say you have $500,000 but
you're still using 2500 so you're not
using the full potential of your Capital
still that is one method of position
sizing it's very simple you can easily
explain it and follow it but let's see
the results of this simple position
sizing so I'll will keep all the values
the same so the highest high lowest low
is 10 the ATR length is 20 and the
multiplier is four and then the fast
average is 60 and the slow average is
180 we're only going to play with how
many contracts we buy based on the
dollar average through range so we'll
start from 0 to 10,000 in a step of
1,000 so that's only 11 and here are the
results sorted by the risk metric so
zero is our original strategy so we're
always trading one contract remember we
made
$76,000
2.83 return to draw down 72 trades now
we are not changing the trade so that's
why you see all of them 72 we are only
increasing the number of contracts we
are trading in the same trade so at
10,000 risk meaning we are allowing the
strategy to go up and down by
$10,000 we make
$678,000 and we don't suffer a lot in
return to draw down this looks really
good so at $5 the risk metric we are
about 257 return to draw down ratio
but we are making really a lot of money
so instead of 76 we are making 332 but
our draw down now is 129 so let's pick
this strategy so the curves looks like
the same and let's see the list of
Trades so you see now the contracts is
changing so 7 4 5 3 1 2 and three and
four so we are definitely trading
different number of contracts based on
the volatility now what if we add the
risk variable
in the optimization so that will
increase the total optimization to about
60,000 and here are the results sorted
by return to draw down and the first
result is almost double the previous
strategy so the previous strategy was
about 2.8 and return to draw down and
this one is five so it's not the highest
net profit so we can sort by highest net
profit we have
800,000 but return to draw down is much
better so at five and this is the risk
is 8,000 and the fast length is 70 slow
length is 50 which is you might think
it's odd but really because the JY is
the opposite of the USD
JPY and the USD JPY usually go long more
than It Go short in any case these are
the settings and then the ATR multiplier
is three and then the highest high and
the lowest low is 60 and this is how the
strategy looks like so
515 with 5 something for return to draw
down and now the curve is much better
but the number of Trades is 25 so
strategy number 85 is the first one that
has more than 30 trades so this is 50
trades but it's still better return to
draw down and these are the settings so
4,000 for the risk metric and then the
fast moving average is 30 slow moving
average is
40 with 5 ATR multiplier and 5 for the
highest High and the lowest low this is
how the strategy looks like and these
are the results so 22 long 28 short both
of them of course making really big
average trade because remember we have
position sizing on now remember you
cannot trade this strategy or any Trend
following strategy on a single
instrument you will eventually wipe out
your account or you will get bored and
quit it because you will not find Trends
you need to trade it on multiple markets
and you need to trade multiple ation so
just like I showed you like the 30 and
60 the 40 and 50 and so on so forth you
need to have multiple so you need a lot
of capital to trade uh moving average
crossover I mean it the strategy works
but you need a lot of capital and that's
why it's only reserved for hedge funds
or family offices uh or somebody with a
lot of capital let's say you know
million dollars because then you can
divide the million dollars on multiples
strategies multiple instruments and you
can get a really good portfolio if you
like this video then you will love this
one
[Music]
