super trend is a very versatile
indicator it can be used in multiple
ways you can use it inside a strategy as
a stop-loss or a profit Target or as a
signal to enter and exit or as a filter
for another signal and in this video I
will show you how to build a strategy
using super Trend as a signal the
indicator equation is very simple and
it's very close to Kelner channel so for
the upper band we use this average and
add a multiplier of an ATR so in this
case we have two variables it is the ATR
look back and the multiplier and then
same thing for the lower band so it's
the same average but this time we deduct
the multiplier times the ATR so it's the
same equation for Kelner Channel but
Kelner Channel uses the exponential
moving average instead of the high plus
low divide by two the other difference
from kelon channel is the drawing this
is the chart of the NASDAQ 100 Futures
represented by nq. D which is the daily
session and the indicator plotted is the
super Trend indicator so like I
mentioned it has two channels the upper
Channel which is in red the lower
Channel which is in green and notably we
can see the difference from the Kelner
Channel because we are plotting only one
at a time so when the price close above
the upper Channel we draw the lower band
and when the price close below the lower
Channel we draw the upper band another
difference is we only draw the lower
Channel when we get a higher high so you
see once we don't get a higher high we
are flat so again here we are flat again
here we are flat same thing when we are
trending down you see when we don't make
lower low we are flat both of these
characteristics make the super Trend
indicator unique so when the trend is up
it always follows the trend and have a
flat area if we don't make a higher high
and when we are trending down it always
going down and we have a flat area when
we don't make a lower low and that's why
we are drawing one band at a time so now
that we understand how super Trend works
we can easily build a strategy using the
super Trend signal and the signal will
be when the indicator flips from up to
down and from down to up and since I'm
testing this on the NASDAQ 100 NASDAQ
being one of the indexes in the US it
tends to drift up most of the time so we
will not use it to build a short
strategy we will only use the long side
so our strategy will go long
whenever this channel flips from red to
Green basically whenever the price close
up above the upper Channel and here is
the strategy applied so you can see
whenever we flip we buy the next bar and
whenever we flip on the opposite side we
sell the next bar and we are going long
only using a single contract and these
are the results of the strategy 125
trades with about 50% win rate and a
huge huge average trade our return to
draw down is 2.7 and this is our
periodical analysis now of course we can
optimize this so we can optimize the
length of the ATR from 5 to 30 step five
and the
multiplier from 1 to 15 Step One so
overall 90 combinations and this is the
result of the optimization sorted by
return to draw down and we see at the
top the length is 30 20 and then couple
of five 25 so it's all over the place
and this is the 3D
representation so we can see this area
is probably stable so between 10 and 12
on the ATR
multiplier and 20 to 30 of the length
now we can see here the problem is the
low number of Trades very few strategies
have higher than 100 so this one which
is the length of the ATR is five and the
multiplier is two which makes sense
because that means we are the the
channel will be very close to the price
so we get more trades and if I sort by
the multiplier you can see this is
number two and all of them producing
High number of Trades now this is
totally different than one so one
producing more trades but you can see
the results for the one multiplier
they're all losing money so it's a huge
jump between one and two where two all
of them making a lot of money now just
like a moving average we can use a
longer length period for the
ATR and use it with the short period so
imagine just like the 50-day moving
average and the 200 day moving average
so in this case we can use 2 and 10 as
our entry
signal while we have a longer ATR period
also on the long side and this is how it
looks like on the chart so the bright
green and red this is our short length
ATR and multiplier and then the dark
green and dark red is the longer version
and you can see in this case this signal
will not be taken because this one is in
an uptrend but the longer version is in
a downtrend so here is our strategy with
the two super Trend indicators so one is
fast and one is slow and we are uh
optimizing the fast one the same as
before so from 5 to 30 the length in
step of five
the multiplier 1 to 15 Step one and then
the slow length super Trend will be the
ATR look back is from 40 to 100 step 10
and the multiplier from 4 to 14 step two
all in all we have about
3,700 strategies this is the result of
the optimization and we can see now we
have four variables and this will be
hard to see in a 3D graph because the Y
AIS is is the net profit and then X and
Y is two variables and then this is the
third but we're still missing the fourth
so you can overcome this by removing one
of the variables and it's very easy to
remove one of the variables in this case
we can just say that whenever we
optimize the length of the short super
Trend indicator we use the same value
times three for the long super trend
indicator so as you can see now we have
three variables to optimize so the fast
length of the ATR same 5 to3 the fast
length ATR multiplier 1 to 15 that's the
same and now our slow length is always
three times this value so when this is
five the slow length will be 15 when
this is 10 this slow length will be 30
and so on so forth and then the slow ATR
multiplier is the third variable so now
overall we have 540 combination and this
is the result and as you can see we have
three variables so very easy we can
represent that so you see now this is
the fast ATR multiple and this is the
fast ATR length and the slow length is 3
times this value and the z-axis of
course is the net profit and now this is
our third variable so we can see 4 6 8
10 and all of them look at this all of
them are very very stable going back to
the spreadsheet uh we can see again we
have a problem of Trades so this one is
100 Trade so if we filter for 100 trades
and $100 on average per trade we end up
with only 16 strategies so this is the
top strategy the ATR length for the fast
super Trend indicator is 10 the
multiplier is two and this low super
Trend indicator has a length of three
times this so it's 30 and then the
multiplier is four so this is the result
of the strategy 191,000 5 to1 return to
draw down and this is the curve but as
you can see we have only a 100 trades
now we can easily overcome the drawback
of the low number of Trades by switching
to a lower time frame because with a
lower time frame of course we will get
more signals and then we can easily
filter the extra signals out so let's
try the strategy on the same Market but
we will switch to 60 Minutes time frame
so now we are on the same Market the
NASDAQ 100 Futures but now we are using
the 1eh hour time frame and again we
have the two super Trend indicator so I
will optimize the fast and slow super
Trend indicators with the settings that
gives us in total 2700 combinations and
this is the result of the optimization
so out of 2700 strategies we have about
50% of the strategies that has more than
100 trades and more than $100 on average
per trade and as you can see the
difference is huge when we switch to
intraday so look at all these number of
Trades they are 500 400 1,000 so on The
Daily we were barely making 100 trades
and here we have so many and the
advantage here is we can easily now add
a filter to enhance our strategy now let
me pick this strategy so this is
15770 60 about 642 trades with a really
good average for the NASDAQ 348 so this
is our strategy performance 223 with 5.1
return to draw down and these are the
trade
results the problem is here is when we
look at this Equity curve we we can see
we are in a big draw down for almost 6
seven years now from experience when you
see an equity curve like this it's
usually a direction filter that will fix
this type of equity curve because
basically the market regime was in a
certain type and volatility Market
regime doesn't stay long enough so
usually it's a direction Market regime
now we can easily do this with a 200 day
moving average so we say only go long
using whatever combinations of the super
Trend indicator when the price is above
the 200 day moving average that works
really well on the indexes of course
since we are using the trend filter we
can introduce another longer version of
the super Trend indicator so we have the
short and let's say the medium term and
then the really really long term that
will act just like a 200 moving average
so I will show you both of them and how
they will affect the strategy so this is
the equity curve of the two super Trend
indicators and now I will add the 200
day moving average meaning we will only
take the signal when both of them are
green both the super Trend indicators
and the price is above the 20 day moving
average so if we compile and you see how
we got rid of of all
that draw down and let's see the
performance and also we make more money
our return to draw down goes down a
little bit we were 5 something and like
I told you this is the advantage of
having more trades because you can
easily add a filter and even after the
filter we have
252 trades 62% and we're making about
$1,200 on average now going back here
instead of the 200 day moving average I
will add a longer version of the super
Trend this time I'm going to use a
150 bars lookback for the ATR and let's
see how that's going to affect so it
looks almost the same let's see the
performance even though we making same
money our return to draw down is not as
good now of course I can fix the let's
say long-term Trend filter so I can fix
the super Trend at 150 and now
reoptimize the
short and the medium super Trend there
are many ways to go about this but the
idea is the same super Trend indicator
can be used for everything as a filter
and as an entry signal in fact I don't
want to complicate things but I can
still use the same super Trend indicator
as a stop loss or a profit Target for
this strategy and it works really well
because it's a kind of a breakout
strategy and if you use it as a trailing
stop it it will protect a lot of of your
profits and that's why this super Trend
indicator is really really versatile if
you like this video then you will love
the next one
[Music]
