seasonal patterns are a great addition
to any portfolio you need to always have
at least one seasonal strategy in your
portfolio this also could be called bias
basically we are looking for a pattern
in the instrument this could be intraday
it could be daily it could be weekly and
then you include that strategy in your
portfolio because the driver of that
return from the strategy will be totally
different from any other style of
strategy that you have in your portfolio
now in my ATM I'll go trading
masterclass I have this tool which is
specialized to find those patterns in
any instrument you upload from that tool
you can get many patterns and build
strategies out of those patterns and you
can include those strategies in your
portfolio that tool shows you intraday
patterns or intra weak patterns that you
can use but today I will show you a tool
where you can discover many other
patterns above the intraday the tool is
called season act now I have done videos
on season X but the app was updated many
times and today I will include all these
updates and give you a full review of
the new tool before we go any further
the basic premise for seasonal patterns
is this imagine you have the curved
performance of every instrument for
every day of the year so this is what it
looks like and if you stack them all
together you get a curve like this
basically you're averaging everything
and you're getting every day the
performance for the past however many
years of data you have and then
everything is built around that data so
this is the original tool season X and
first welcomed Edition is the black
interface so if you go to your account
and you click on dark
you can see here
save it go back and now you have a dark
interface of course this is very
welcomed addition it reduces the Train
on your eyes now season X have data for
Global markets for around 25
000 instruments here you have the
popular instruments and of course you
can search and look for Global
instruments and they have data up to 100
years depending on the instrument I'll
start first with the screener this makes
it easier for you to find patterns so
this automatically finds pattern that
are coming soon so for example here this
is the Dow Jones and the starting date
of this is night because I'm recording
this on the 9th of June but you can go
further so 10 16 23 and 9th of July so
every time you log into the screener it
will give you about a month forward
patterns then also you can decide on how
many years you can include let's do 15
and you can also decide on what's the
time period that this pattern holds so I
look for short-term patterns this is 5
to 30 days and then you can filter by
what's the win percent so let's look
anything above 80 percent up or down so
up for long the for shorts for example
based on this I have Amgen and Johnson
and Johnson these are two patterns that
are found within these filters here you
can pick baskets or you can click
Commodities currencies U.S indices
European indices your sectors European
sectors and other indices around the
world let's click on Amgen once you have
the patterns so the pattern is
highlighted and you get all these
statistics so this is the performance
per year this is the community of profit
if you invested in this pattern for the
past 15 years now this pattern holds for
a month from 9th of June till 9th of
July and if you annualize this the
annualized return will be 68 so out of
the last 15 years 80 percent of the
trades were winners
with a median return of 2.72 percent the
average return is 4.4 percent this is
the profit and points in this case this
is a stock so every point is worth one
dollar per share so this is in total how
much you made per share 72 dollars per
share so if you invested 1 000 shares at
a time you would have made seventy two
thousand dollars and then we have the 12
profitable trades three losing trades
the profit and loss on average and this
number of Trades how many calendars held
and how many trading days held because
even though we have a month but in that
month we had only 21 trading days
and then you have the all the trades
listed with Mae and MFE numbers so while
the screener provides these automatic
patterns we can of course look for our
own pattern so for example let me bring
crude oil so we can see that crude oil
on average every Monday is down it's
down what by point two percent and also
very obvious here we can see that April
May June are up and July to December are
down now you might not see it here
because this includes the trend you can
D Trend and this is another good feature
so if you click on this this is
d-trended now and you can see that's why
we can short from July till let's say
middle of December and if we are
shorting then this is profitable but
this is 50 50. but what if we short
from middle of October almost to Middle
of December now we are much better place
look at this this is 70 win trade
because we are shorting it shows the
opposite and our median trade is 8.25
percent win rate that's huge percentage
and I can go back so this is 10 let's go
back to 25 years and again even in 25
years look how this pattern is drawn now
I can finish this let's say I can go
here and pull back to here and let's say
now I'm holding less but I'm making uh
close to the same amount of money and
let's say I like this pattern so the
next feature now we have is we can save
this pattern so if you go here this is
the bookmark so if I bookmark this
pattern now it's saved in my pattern the
nice feature now we have is if we go to
patterns we can go to manage patterns
and this is my recent pattern so now if
I click on it
or any number of patterns that I have
saved and I can add them to my calendar
now you will receive an email three days
before the pattern starts and three days
before the pattern ends and actually I
can go to patterns my calendar you can
see here I have apple for this month and
if I go to October here is my crude oil
saved here so on Tuesday October 10th
I'll receive an email saying this button
will be alive in three days and of
course if you click on it in the
calendar it will take you to the pattern
and everything inside so this is a great
added features because now you can save
hundreds of patterns and you'll receive
an email three days before it happens to
let you know that you can that this
pattern is coming and you can trade that
path also in the screener you have your
own basket so for example this is
dividend Kings these are the stocks that
part of the dividend Kings which are
basically increasing their dividends for
the past 25 years
so once you put those in it will also
automatically search your basket of
instruments and give you this pattern so
although these are dividend stocks and I
have a momentum system built on these
dividend stocks that I use in the
portfolio section in the community but
the screener will also look inside your
basket and will give you patterns so for
example I can sort by annualized return
so this is 44 going long and if I go on
the downside
this is 70 on the short side so let's go
25 years
so for the past 25 years this pattern
made money if you short this stock
between June 9th and 25th of June the
win rate is 72 percent and you make
annualized 65 the median is 2.62 per
trade those baskets you can control here
you can manage the baskets and you can
add a new basket and so on so forth and
each basket can hold up to a hundred and
strong now season X is free to try so
you have nothing to lose you definitely
should try it and find some patterns to
use in your trading you can use it as a
signal or as a filter they have the free
plan and they have basic and
professional now with basic and
professional if you switch to annually
you will get a two months discount on
top of that if you use my link you will
get an extra 20 off on top of the 20 off
annual with the paid plans you get up to
100 Years of historical data depending
on the instrument and you can import the
custom data and also you can compare
instrument to instrument another great
feature is you can compare the current
pattern to a previous year so for
example let me so this is the SMP and
there is a pattern here that's 76
percent win rate the median is 3.26
percent so if we click on more I can
pick the years that I don't include for
example 2002
looks very extreme so if I click all I
can exclude 2002 from the curve and you
can see it barely changed but also I can
compare it 20 years so for example let
me compare it to 2012 and now the orange
line is 2012 and the blue line is the
average you can also compare it to
another instrument so for example here I
will add the triple Q
and the orange line now is the triple q
and the blue line is the SMP the next
feature is you can upload your own data
and of course when season X built this
is because let's say you are in a
country where your data is not part of
the data inside sqx so you can upload
all the instruments you want and you
will find the patterns inside them so
not only that you can also upload for
example alternative day so for example
this is the USC bot soybean oil number
of Traders so you might get a pattern
out of this data now of course if you go
here there are many alternative data
featured so look at this the agriculture
weather and this is of course not free
but you can see how you can build many
patterns in alternative data and of
course most likely you've heard of the
commitment of Traders and you can get
that data for free here from CFC dc.gov
and you can get it for many many markets
long and short and commercials and
hedgers and so on so forth and you can
import that data into season X now for
example here I uploaded some custom data
so this is a data set that I uploaded so
this is not an instrument as you can see
it's called stat Oasis data set and for
example in this data set there is this
pattern where if you hold it you can
make
9.12 median return with almost 60
percent win rate
and if we do this
12 years of data I have here
and I can de-trend it so to season X
this is just like another instrument
like Microsoft S P 500 US dollar euro
dollar it doesn't matter to season X
engine this is the same you feed the
data basically the date and the close
and that's it everything else will work
now by far the best feature which I kept
it to the end is the event feature they
added this recently and this is just
amazing because it takes so much out of
building those events in your trading
platform for example I did the end of
the month trading strategy and you can
watch that over here and now in this
version of season X you can test this
extremely easily let me show you how
okay so here I have the S P 500 for the
past 25 years and let's D Trend okay so
now this is the new feature it's called
events so if you you click on events
this is the new chart 0 denotes to the
event day so whatever event we will pick
this is the event when it happens and
this is 10 days before and 10 days after
you can pick the number of days here
from three all the way to 30. so let's
stay with 10 and going back to the
strategy that I mentioned if we go
and pick our event so we will go to term
of the month
and first day of the month
so now zero is the first day of the
month that's the event date so for the S
P 500 for the past 25 years 3D print the
price
we can clearly see that five days before
the end of the month
all the way to three days after the end
of the month we have a really good
pattern it's 64 win rate annualized at
18 median is 0.67 now I can try to
squeeze this and see if we can make it
better so this is one day before end of
the month and holding for three days and
we get almost the same but holding less
days so 61 win rate annualized and 0.61
median return now turn of the month you
can have middle of the month and again
there is a pattern in the middle of the
month so minus three all the way to plus
one that means
three days before middle of the month
and holding for one day
and this is the same pattern so it makes
again 65 win rate and the median is 0.55
so if you trade these two patterns twice
a month because you're holding each time
four days end of the month and the
middle of the month you'll make 1.1
percent on average per month for the
past 25 years now in recent years this
patterns behave even much better even
though we can see clearly that I can
build less one day
and I can make more money okay so since
this is the US indexes I assume it
should work on the other indexes so this
is triple q and again look it's like
copy and paste let's go 24 years same
thing this is middle of the month and
end of the month
again it's the same thing
I expect to make money one day
two or three days
and this even the median is bigger and
let's see the Dow Jones
again it's profit so you see the
programming part is gone you can test
this on 25 000 instruments of course
some patterns will have nothing to do
with other instruments for example 10 of
the month on let's say I don't know the
Dax maybe but usually you can find
really good patterns now it doesn't go
in the on the day of the month there are
many more patterns so if we go to
Central Bank and this is the US Fed rate
I do not know which one is this and how
free that one I don't know
uh but then we have the bank of Japan
and the Euro bank so the Euro of course
will affect the European indexes Bank of
Japan will affect the Japanese index or
the Japanese Yen and then of course the
U.S fed will affect the US dollar or the
bonds and interest rate in the US so if
we take for example uh rate change
and I put here the TLT which is the 20
plus a year treasury bond so this is
really good because we don't need to
know ahead of time so after the rate
change in two days and hold for three
days there is a good pattern so let me
go back this is 20 years median profit
is 0.37
65 percent win rate so this is
annualizes almost 50 percent that's
great this pattern is one day look at
this one day
so after a Fed rate hike
four days you hold for one day
you're getting 0.33
median return per trade 72 win percent
so this is better than the rate change
and that's 400 annualized because you're
holding on one day and that's why it's
big and it's been working for the last
20 years so again the testing is
extremely easy and you can easily find
something now I'm gonna look at the
Ducks for Europe and let's look at the
ECB rate change
and let's look 25 years
this is a great pattern
so before a rate change this is the
event date so seven days before we go
along we hold for three days we're
making on average 1.13 percent
70 win rate that is an amazing pattern
for the past 25 years
again if you want to do something after
so for example after a rate hike so
we're looking for a pattern here this
looks very promising
and it is
so eight days after a rate hike for the
past 25 years median return is 0.85
77 win rate and of course it's a huge
annualized return because you're holding
only for two days
let's see if we have more data 43 years
and again it barely bought 43 years this
patterned produced wonderful results now
of course we have much more patterns we
have the elections we have future
expiries
holidays and I found one very
interesting in Easter so Easter and Dax
and look at this
so two days before Easter one day after
Easter so you're holding three days for
the past 43 years
76 win rate
1.1 million return it's impossible that
this is a chance so it's definitely
something is there fundamentally and
that's why this pattern works and now
I'm going to try something different
this is report and if you go to ISM
Manufacturing this is in the US
and since since this is affecting
manufacturing I will pick here the xli
ETF
which is the industrial sector
and if we pick last 24 years
and we can see a pattern here from minus
one two three or four so we're holding
for four days we're making point five
six percent median and 61 percent win
rate and if we increase one day
that's the same thing
and if we start
from minus five days to three
now we're making 0.77 percent on median
and same winning percentage so you can
see it's on and on there are many many
patterns this event thing is amazing and
I'm sure they will update it with more
events and it will be great if they let
us add our custom event just like we add
our custom data to build your own first
day of the month strategy watch this
video and I will see you
[Music]
thank you
foreign
[Music]
foreign
