day trading strategies are very popular
for the simple fact that you can trade
during the day and exit when the market
closes sleep comfortably at night
knowing that your capital is safe and
sound in this video I will teach you a
simple profitable day trading strategy
and if you stay till the end I will show
you how you can implement it in any
trading platform welcome back I am Al
Casey from stat O's Channel and although
I am an algo Trader and I teach algo
trading but I understand not everyone is
suited for algo trading first of all you
need the infrastructure you need to
learn uh the platform sometimes you need
to learn to code so simple strategies
that can be implemented without code
without trading platform back testing
are really valuable especially for
beginners and like I promised this will
be a simple day trading strategy on the
S&P 500 futures now although I'm
implementing the strategy on Futures you
can theoretically implement this on any
derivative of the S&P 500 Index the S&P
500 is the most liquid index and can be
traded through many derivatives ETF
double ETF triple ETFs and Futures micro
and mini and options and so on so forth
so I'll leave it up to you how to
implement the strategy I'll just show
you the rules for this strategy before
we get into the rules of this strategy
let's discuss the overnight risk most
people are afraid to hold any instrument
of overnight any instrument in the
financial Market there is usually this
fear of holding overnight in fact some
platforms like strategy Quant X have
this option with a tick like you can
take to build a strategy that exit end
of day or that exit before the weekend
meaning on Fridays but as algo Traders
we cannot just go with anything we hear
or read about or even see on YouTube so
to verify that holding overnight is
risky or not we need to test here we
have the S&P 5 00 daily chart and I will
switch my strategy on this strategy will
buy the open and we'll sell at the close
as you can see every day we buy the open
we sell the close every day we buy the
open we sell the close and if we do this
for the whole data that I have which is
since 2006 that's 17 years this is the
performance we make
$80,000 and our biggest draw down is
$38,000 that's 2 to one but if we look
at the trade analysis the total number
of Trades
4,323 and on average we are making
$19 now this does not include slippage
and commission which is for sure this
will be a losing strategy but we are
just looking at the edge of holding
during the day or overnight now I will
switch my strategy to hold overnight
only so we'll switch this to one
and now we are buying the close and
selling the next open buying the close
selling the next open and so on and so
forth so basically we are holding only
overnight session so now we have these
two windows on the left we have the
daily strategy buying the open selling
the close and on the right now we are
holding overnight so we are buying the
close and selling next open and looking
at these stats so both of them have the
same number of Trades which is obviously
is the same we are using the same data
and coincidentally both of them are
averaging $19 per trade without slippage
and commission but we have some
different stats for example the average
losing trade here is
546 here during the day it's more it's
757 and the largest losing trade in the
daily session it's 7,000 and overnight
is 10,000 so now if we switch to the
perform performance the overnight is
making 81 of course you know that's
nothing let's consider them the same but
here the maximum strategy draw down so
the draw down where we are holding the
contract overnight is
52,000 and this is the maximum strategy
draw down during the day it's 38,000 so
definitely the risk of holding overnight
is more than the risk of holding during
the day although we are making exactly
the same amount of money okay so from
the test we did holding overnight is
riskier than holding during the day
although we making same amount of money
but we are risking losing more overnight
than during the day now we need to find
out if this holding overnight riskier
than during the day is it true for all
days or only for certain part of the
week here is the optimization for the
daily session strategy so this this is
the strategy that holds during the day
buying the open selling at the close and
the filters are from 0 to 5 so one is
Monday and five is Friday and zero is
holding all the days so this is our
original strategy but now we find
something really really interesting not
all the days are the same and in fact
there is a huge discrepancy of buying
Thursday open and selling Thursday close
if we only buy Thursday and hold your
during the day we make $50 on average
while the rest are 19 and in fact
Wednesday is the worst where we lose and
of course this is not including
commission and slippage but still this
is definitely it's a huge pattern and
this is not a coincidence in fact if I
choose this which is buying Thursday if
I look at periodical returns since 2006
so this is not a coincidence is not an
overfit if I I buy Thursdays on average
I make money yes it's not enough money
but there's nothing here no filter no
nothing the fact that most of the years
are profitable that is huge pattern so
this is already really really good and
the trade analysis shows that we went
from 4,000 plus trades to 888 trades on
average we're making $50 per trade our
largest losing trade is $55,000
plus and this is the equity curve now
let's go to the overnight side so again
here zero it's all days and one to five
is Monday to Friday original strategy is
averaging
$19 and net profit is 81 and again here
we have a significant pattern which is
buying Monday close and selling Tuesday
open on average we make $88 and holding
overnight from
Wednesday that's extremely bad so not
all the days are the same and in fact if
we click on this so we hold overnight
and this is our strategy performance we
make
$71,000 8 to1 return to draw down ratio
our trade analysis around 800 plus
trades same like the day session we're
making 88 and our largest losing trade
is now
below 5,000 and again this is not a
fluke and it's not an optimization
overall all years makes money so that is
something built into the index now why
these patterns exist I don't know I
don't care also some people do care they
want to find out the fundamental reason
behind why such a pattern exist I long
time ago dropped this part where I look
for the reason if there is a statistical
significance in the pattern I will just
use it now that we have these two
patterns that's a great beginning for a
strategy we have one during the day and
one is overnight and the nice thing they
do not overlap we can trade both easily
with the same Capital but of course like
all strategies we need to add a filter
to the strategy to enhance one or more
metrics of that strategy so starting
with the day session strategy now out of
hundreds of filters that you can test I
picked here 18 from different categories
so zero that means no filter and 18
filters so in total we have
19 and this is the result of all filters
so of course this is our original
strategy $50 on average and return to
draw down ratio is almost two so if we
sort by return to draw down ratio so
here we have four and then 3 3 29 27 so
almost eight filters do better on this
and if we look at our average trade so
we had 50 before all of these are better
than 50 but we notice that some of them
are really good so this one
75 and number one so if we skip 117
which is a low average trade so out of
75 and 1 15 makes the the most amount of
money but 15 is my market regime
proprietary indicator and since this is
a simple strategy we will not use that
so let's pick seven instead which makes
a little bit less money but still very
good so what is seven and this is filter
7 which is two down close in a row that
means Tuesday is a down close and
Wednesday is a down close then we buy
Thursday and that will yield the this
average trade and this strategy so if we
choose this strategy this is how it
looks like it's
$40,000 with a maximum $10,000 draw down
so that gives us four return to draw
down the equity curve look like this we
have a huge stagnation period here but
that's okay and then total trades it's
172 so we went all the way from 4,000
plus trades to 172 trades on average
we're making 238 eight and this is our
annual period analysis now if we pick
the overnight session and let's optimize
so here we have the overnight on and we
will optimize the same filters and let's
see what we get so this is our original
strategy making 88 and if we sort by
custom Fitness which is return to draw
down we have 10 filters that does better
than the original strategy and this time
all of them have good average trade
let's start from from here so all these
top six filters have great average trade
so 10 and above are my market regime
filters so 12 which is number one 11 and
18 those are my market regime filters
and they are propriety code we will not
use them in this simple strategy so
let's pick number seven which is the
next best thing in terms of return to
draw down but look at this one this is
making 62,000 and very close return to
draw down and this is filter number
three and what is filter number three
and filter number three is extremely
easy if the close is lower than the
50-day moving average so let's pick this
strategy and this is the strategy stat
$62,000 with 4600 only in draw down so
that's why we have the 14 to1 draw down
ratio and the curve looks much much
better than the daily session 265 TR
Raad on average
237 and our annual period is also much
better than the other one so here they
are side by side and we can see how the
overnight perform much better than the
daily session and we can see how we have
huge stagnation here the curve here is
always pulling up so through rigorous
testing we find out that the overnight
session is not as risky as they say it
is in fact we make more money and our
draw down is less than if we are holding
during the day even though we applied
the same filters to both strategies now
how to implement this strategy without a
trading platform without back testing
without automation now although you can
implement this strategy in any trading
platform I picked this free charting
software it's trading view since you
don't need an automatic algo to trade
this strategy so this is the S&P 500 the
Orange Line this line is is the 50-day
moving average and if you click on
indicators and look for day of week you
will find many indicators and I picked
these two so so this one puts a bar in
the background so if we scroll down
these are the settings so I told it to
show Mondays because that's what we are
interested in we want to trade Monday
overnight and there is another one which
is this one and this one highlights the
bar same thing so show Monday and you
can pick and choose what to highlight
and you can see now if we are above the
50-day moving average on Monday we buy
the close and we sell next morning and
so this is two weeks ago that trade lost
money and this is a week ago and that
trade made a little bit of money now we
are very far from the 50-day moving
average so so the next month which is
December as the time I'm recording this
video all Mondays should be above uh the
moving average and you can use the
strategy for the next four Mondays in
December to learn more about pattern
strategies watch this video and I will
see you
[Music]
there
w
