about 10 years ago through my research
on the S P 500 I found a small Edge and
I built a trading strategy around it
that I used to trade it manually the
strategy is still profitable today and
in fact it's still part of a big
portfolio that I have that trades
automatically today in this video I will
show you how to find such edges in every
market and how to build strategies
around it and trade them in a portfolio
if you trade any Market enough time and
you pay attention then you'll definitely
find some patterns that repeat over time
when I used to trade the S P 500
manually I picked up on a python that
happens about once a month the pattern
that I found is that the S P 500 usually
have a one big range day every month
this big range definition of course has
many interpretation but usually it's a
big range you can easily spot it on a
chart and you can easily quantify the so
here at the bottom I have an indicator
that plots a bar whenever it finds this
pattern so the way I defined this big
range day is whenever the bar range
is double the range of the previous bar
plus the same bar is greater than one
and a half time the average true range
of the last 20 bucks once you put that
definition in then we have these bars
and as you can see it's not every month
but on average it's about once a month
so we can see here if we focus here it's
clearly that we are seeing this bar it's
a huge bar and it's of course that more
than double the previous bar and
definitely bigger than the 20-day
average true rate we can see here it's
the same thing and this one of course
but then look at this one this is a big
bar but it's like an illusion if I
actually switch this to bars like these
you can see that this is actually not
double as this so you know that's why
you need to quantify it because if
you're looking at the chart yourself
manually then you can easily make a
mistake so this is how I Quantified the
pattern which is when today's range is
at least double the previous range and
also today's range is greater than one
and a half times the average true range
of the last 20 bucks and this indicator
will plot these stats so looking at the
S P 500 I have
6500 bars and the average range of All
These Bars is about 23 points of course
this will heavily be influenced by the
volatility but averaging all these years
is 23 points per day since 1998 and this
stats the event is the number of Big
Range days depending on this definition
so plotting this definition will give us
230 occurrences that happens in the past
25 years
that comes to three and a half percent
of all the dates so this is less than
once a month once a month is about five
and a half percent out of the 230 events
that we have
61 of them which is 26 percent is an
update and 73 is a down day so here is
something that we immediately get that
most of the Big Range days are down day
the average bars between events is 26 so
that's about five weeks of trading days
this is an extremely nice stat which is
if we have an update the probability
that the next bar is up is 13 that means
if we have a bot like this this tall
green bar this is a huge range day and
it is up closing up the probability that
next day is up it's only 13 which tells
me that there is 87 chance that the next
day is down day so imagine having that
knowledge when you are trading if you
have a big update yes it is less
frequent but when it happens you have 87
percent chance next day is a down day so
you can short at midnight you can short
at the open you can short when it breaks
the previous low or the previous close
or the previous open because you just
want to go short you're just waiting for
anything to tell you yes go short now
because we still have 13 chance that
it's not gonna go down it's going to go
up but 87 that is huge in any uh
probability book and let's look at the
next ad and the second bar after the big
range update it has a 60 probability
that it will be up and that's how you
build your strategy around this huge
huge pattern which is we wait for a big
range update
we short the next day we go along the
day after and then for Big Range down
days there is a 30 that it's gonna go
down the next day so we still have a
huge Edge that is 70 percent that the
next day is an update and look at this
there is a 62 chance that the next day
also is an update so when we have a huge
range day that it is down closed down
then most likely scenario next day is up
and the day after is also up the chances
are 70 next day and the day after is
about 60 chance still those are
extremely good edges that you can
exploit to build your strategy now every
Market has their own patterns but this
pattern in particular is available in
many many markets and we can see so this
is the SMP and if we go to NASDAQ we can
see almost the same odds exist on the
NASDAQ where 31 of the events are up and
the rest are down also look at this the
chance that the next bar is up is 15
same thing for EMD same thing for Dao
this is soybeans and we can see soybeans
has more updates than down days but
again we see the flip next day Where The
Down usually have 80 chance of flipping
to up this is heating oil on an up day
next day is up is only 19 that means
again you can short the next day this is
crude oil and we see 35 percent of the
Big Range days are updates followed by
down day 81 of the time this pattern
also exists of course in stock so we can
go to for example Tesla
and Google
Amazon
Coca-Cola and you can see in all these
instruments that I pull from stocks to
futures
they are all usually have the same
behavior well the next day like if today
is a big range day and it's up usually
the next day is down and the opposite is
also true so now we need to test our
theory that when we have a big range
update we want to short the next day and
when we have a big range down day we
want to go along the next day we're
basically playing the opposite so let's
test our Theory and see if we can make a
strategy out of it so here is the
strategy applied and we can see all
these days are read so there are no
trades only this one is green and we go
short at the open we close the trade at
the close this is how the performance
looks like
and these are the stats 61 trades making
about 300 on average now this is really
a good average trade for the S P 500
that should covers all slippage and
commission and you're still ending up
with a good profit the only drawback of
the strategy is the number of Trades so
to get more trades in the strategy we
need to ease up on the restrictions now
there there are only two conditions that
we have in this strategy which is the
Big Range day has to be twice as big as
the previous day and it has to be
greater than the average true range so
if I keep only the first part of the
conditions which is the range has to be
double the previous range and I get rid
of the average true range condition
let's compile that strategy and look at
this we went from 61 trades to 198 rate
of course that came with a sacrifice
which is the average win went from 300
to about 100. now that's a huge drop so
now the strategy is not usable we need
to make it usable and we can do that
easily with a filter and like I
mentioned on this channel many many
times a good filter is usually a
direction or volatility so let me use a
simple Direction filter which is the adx
so if the adx 20 bar is greater than 20
and we will take the trade and let's see
what that produced so that bring us back
to 65 and yes it's better average trade
but you know we lose all the trade so
let me try something else
so this is now if the close is greater
than the 50-day moving average
and that's good we still have 149 trades
but now our average trade went to four
dollars which tells me that if I flip
this it should work and let's flip it
which is now the close is lower than the
average uh 50 bars
we increase our average trade which is
really good but now we even reduce our
number of Trades so again that is not
usable so now we are back with our
filters so 200 trades and 112 and let me
use one of my favorite filters now which
is IBS so if IBS is greater than 85 we
will take the trade and this is It's
like a compromise but a good compromise
so we almost doubled the trades from the
original strategy so from 60 we went to
115 and we also reduce the profits but
it's still it's a good profit so 222 on
average that is still very good and if
we look at the equity curve now it looks
like this and if we look at our annual
period since 98 it looks like this now
as you saw every filter work in a
different way especially when they are
from different categories like Direction
volatility they will produce different
results and in fact you can apply a
filter on the strategy and take that as
a single strategy and then you have you
have let's say three or four filters
producing four strategies and then you
combine all these four strategies into a
portfolio that work as a single strategy
the reason you want to do that is then
you can get more trades and they will
not be correlated I mean they they could
but the correlation will be very minimal
so in this case I will keep let's say
the IBS as a single strategy now we will
work on the other side which is going
long when we have a big range down day
so this is the second part of the
strategy where we are going long
whenever you have a big range down day
so this is one and this is one and this
is one and so on and so forth and we can
see we have
164 trades and we are losing so that
means the theory that the next day is
opposite while it's true we cannot make
money with it so let me try the same
concept first I will remove the
condition
for the average true range in order to
increase the number of Trades so if I
remove that we compile now we have
326 trades
and now if I want to use a filter so say
for example I use my IBS again and if we
compile now the strategy is profitable
so by increasing the number of Trades I
have the luxury to add a filter and now
I am making 58 trades and on average I
am making 366 dollars so now we have two
parts one a short one is long it's on
the same instrument they will not happen
on the same day because it's impossible
to have a big up day range at the same
time as a big down rate so you can
combine these into a single strategy and
let's see what we get so here are the
two strategies combined it's a total of
173 trades and we're making 270 on
average both the short and long are
making good money and we have more
trades on the short side and this is how
this strategy looks like which is really
good we're going up all the time and if
we look look at the annual period
analysis as you can see by paying
attention to the market you are trading
you can find patterns and you can easily
test them and build strategies around
them to learn more about patterns watch
this video and I will see you
foreign
[Music]
