as a Trader most likely you've heard of
fair value Gap it's a special kind of
Gap that happens in all kind of markets
and there are many videos on YouTube
articles and blogs about the subject but
really all of them are BS as usual and
none of them at least the one I saw
attacked this problem quantitatively so
this is what I'm going to do in this
video I will show you how to spot these
fair value gaps and how to trade them
this is an example of fair value Gap to
spot it we need to look at three bars in
a row so this is Bar number one bar
number two and Bar number three we are
looking at a gap between the high of bar
number one and the low of bar number
three while Bar number two being a big
range bar so these two bars they don't
overlap there is a space between them
but they both overlap this big big huge
bar and so this phase in Orange is
called fair value Gap so basically the
fair value Gap points to imbalance in
the market in the example I showed you
where bar three is higher than bar one
the imbalance points to the Bulls
overcoming the Bears or the buyers
overcoming the sellers now there is an
opposite to this which is the bar one is
higher than bar three and in this case
the sellers of overcome the buyers and
that's why you have this fair value Gap
so if you look anywhere on the internet
on how to trade these fair value Gap
usually they will point you in the
direction of the Gap so if we have a
buyers overcoming sellers then you go
long and of course the opposite to go
short also most of them will tell you
that this fair value Gap will be filled
at some point in time maybe it happens
maybe it doesn't but that's just what
they usually say and then they will tell
you well if it comes back to that zone
then you should buy or sell in that zone
to go in the direction again nothing
concrete I didn't see any quantitative
way I didn't see any strategy built with
metrics on it that's the normal way on
YouTube and anyway we will do our best
here to explain how to trade this
solution number one is to go with The
Gap so in this case if the fair value
Gap is on the long side meaning bar
three is higher than bar one then we
will go long and of course it's if the
fair value Gap is in the on the opposite
side meaning bar one is higher than bar
three then we will go short the next way
to trade the fair value Gap usually that
you will find is that the fair value Gap
will be filled at some point in the
future so the fair value Gap happens you
keep watching the chart until the price
comes back to this Gap to fill it and
then once it's in the Gap you buy it
with the expectation to go up and of
course it's the opposite for the short
fair value Gap in this video I will
focus on trading this pattern now you
can find the fair value Gap in any
market and in trading view there are
hundreds of indicators that can show you
this I picked this one by Lux algo this
is the fair value Gap on the long side
and you can see that we have many of
them and actually you can tweak this so
you see now it shows when it's filled so
you see when the price gets in it gets
lower in it gets lower and so on so
forth again so in this case the price
comes back to fair value Gap and goes
down now if you look at videos and blogs
about this subject they will point you
to two variables which is how big is
this Gap and how big is this bar usually
they say well this bar needs to be too
big that's vague but anyway we will test
it and this needs to be too wide also
that's vague but again we will test it
so basically we have two variables how
wide is this and how wide is this bar
now in order to do this for all markets
you cannot do this in points because for
example the S&P 500 will have different
points than the USD Japanese Yen so you
need to do this in ATR basically how
wide is this Gap compared to the average
through range of the instrument and also
how wide is this bar compared to the
average through range of this instrument
and then you can apply the strategy on
any market and you can compare it easily
so here is the strategy applied in
multi-arts on the S&P 500 futures so So
currently the way it's implemented we
don't care about the size of the gap or
the size of the middle bar so let's look
at some examples so you see this bar the
low is higher than the high of this bar
and we have this bar in the middle
that's a fair value Gap we go along next
bar and we exit after one bar and again
here this bar low is higher than this
bar high this is the bar in the middle
we go along next bar we exit after one
bar holding for one bar only just to see
how good the strategy is or if there is
an edge so looking at this strategy we
have
644 occurrences of this bar on average
we are making $6 obviously this is a
losing strategy but it is positive
nonetheless this is the long side only
and this is the short side so 584 trades
and we are losing losing
$77 on average I've mentioned this
hundreds of times on this channel that
the S&P 500 is a Me reverting instrument
tends to drift up all the time so
instead of taking the breakout measure
which is trading the fair value Gap when
it is on the long side the miror version
is we trade long when we have fair value
gap on the downside so this is what I
mean we will use this side to go along
and this side to go short so when we
have a gap on the downside we will go
long and of course because we are
trading the S&P 500 I will not even
bother with the short side so just to
compare this is the original strategy
and now we are going to flip it and as
expected we do very well so we have
413 trades and we are doing 73 average
per trade already there is no filter
we're exiting in one day okay now comes
the quantitative approach we will first
test if the bar in the middle if the
range of that bar affect our strategy or
not and then we will test the gap size
if it matters in the strategy or not so
here are the results of optimizing the
range of the middle bar again I'm doing
this in average true range size so from
zero all the way to six zero means the
strategy is the original strategy so we
have 43 trades we're making $73 on
average per trade and this is the size
of the middle bar in terms of average
through range from zero all the way to
six so let's go back here and if I sort
by return to draw down I can actually
enhance so 1.7 1.6 1.4 85 that means if
the middle bar is within 1.4 to 1.9
average through range I enhance my
strategy so comparing it to the original
strategy I make more money and a lot
less draw down now we are testing the
size of the Gap so the Gap is down and
we don't care about the middle bar and
we're just testing the size of the Gap
in ATR and again zero is our original
strategy and we go all the way to six
and like we saw with the other one so
here about 3.6 so when the gap
is about three and a half times the
average through range there are no
trades and if we go all the way up so
this is 148 if we saw by custom draw
again we can enhance the strategy so
this is the original strategy and we
have nine sizes that does better and
again it looks like from 1.3 4 5 7 and 8
all these atrs are good and then double
the ATR is also good but these producing
one trade so I wouldn't consider these
so it looks like 1.3 1.4 1.5 7 and 8 are
good and we find out
quantitatively that the size between one
and two atrs of the middle bar and of
the Gap usually produce better results
when trading the fair value Gap but
remember we restrict our strategy to
hold for one bar well you know one bar
is extremely short I mean you can still
do it but let's increase our holding
period which usually for me reversion
strategies anywhere between three and
seven bars is really good so let's pick
something in the middle maybe five and
see what we get so this is the number of
bars holding from 0 to 15 and this is
the net profit and we can see we have a
peak here at number five and another
Peak at number 14 so if I want to pick a
stable area not here so this is 12 it's
a stable area but I can achieve the same
thing at about six so six I am
surrounded by a higher Point here and
about the same here and the same here so
let me pick six bars as the exit point
so here is my strategy at six bars so
for example here we have a gap between
this one and this one and again we are
not measuring the Gap this is zero I
don't care and I don't care about the
length of the bar in the middle so I'm
just measuring any Gap with any bar in
the middle and then I go along but now I
am holding holding for six bars so enter
next bar 1 2 3 4 5 6 and I exit next bar
and let's see the result of this
strategy so it's
261 trades but look at this now
$626 on average this is how the charts
look like 43% in the market and this is
the annual period performance we lost in
2008 2018 and 2022 to so the effect of
testing how many bars to hold is much
better than the effect of the threshold
of how wide is the gap or how wide is
the bar in the middle now that we fixed
our exit at six bars which looks like a
stable area let's now go back and see if
the middle bar range will affect the
strategy remember it used to be between
one and two atrs and we will also test
if the wide if how wide the fair value
Gap is will affect the strategy so here
is our original strategy this is holding
for 6 days and now we are testing the
bar in the middle in the fair value Gap
so again from 0 to six and this is the
custom Fitness so 509 and I sort the
highest look at this the highest is zero
this means that it doesn't matter how
big is the bar in the middle if I
exclude it from the equation I make the
most amount of money with the least
amount of draw down this is now
comparing the gap size so the fair value
gap between Bar number one and Bar
number three that's what we are
measuring here again from 0 to six in
terms of average through range and if I
sort by return to draw down again zero
is on the top not only zero is on the
top look at the next value so this is
almost 5.1 and the next one is 3.7 so
the also so the difference is huge
between zero and the next step so our
testing shows Once you increase number
of bars to hold this gap size and the
bar range in the middle doesn't matter
anymore which is extremely good now that
we have an excellent strategy less
variables that means it's very robust
now we can just sit and relax add
filters from our collection and just see
if we can enhance the metrix
significantly now I tested the strategy
with my market regime filters this is
version two of my market regime they are
only Direction and volatility and
currently there are about 250 of them so
0 0 is our original strategy we're
making 163,000 our draw down so
basically we're making 5 to one return
to draw down ratio our average trade is
at
626 so if I sort by custom to return
grow down and let's look at our or this
is our original strategy so 14 so we
have about 13 filters that doing very
well now remember I'm sorting by return
to draw down so it's not necessarily we
are making more money although we have
some filters making more money but it's
not because my my main concern is the
draw down and without looking at the
code for the filters I can tell you that
filters up to number 30 they are
volatility so this is volatility this is
volatility this one and this one and
this one and then the rest are Direction
so sitting at the top is Direction
number two is volatility and if I pick
this one so this is filter 73 and this
is about 40 trades that we taking out
but we took out only the one in the bad
regime now remember this one at the top
it's making the same amount of money
almost so the original strategy making
163 this is making
169 but the draw down is 50% less so
this is huge and this filter 66 is again
a derivative of shortterm Direction now
remember these are not optimizations
each filter is fixed so now I cannot go
back to filter 66 and optimize 66 on a
value this is fixed all my market regime
filters are fixed you cannot touch them
you cannot optimize so picking the
strategy now this is how it looks 141
trades making
$1,200 per trade that's very good 65%
win rate this is how the curve looks
like I mean this is beautiful it's going
up all the time with simple draw downs
and actually we can look at these draw
Downs so it's about $6,000 in the
beginning and lately it's about
$111,000 annual period analysis down in
20 8 almost scratched 2011 and 2018 is
down and since 2018 we are up all the
way now filters comes in all shapes and
sizes in fact I have 700 more filters
that I can put in this optimization but
I didn't want to bother you with usually
Direction and volatility are the most
effective like just like I showed you
easily come up with 15 better strategies
than your original uh strategy just by
applying simple filters now my market
regime filters are proprietary they are
only available to the students in my
algo trading master class but still you
can easily mimic my strategy performance
if you're using a directional filter
like uh moving average or linear
regression or you can use the volatility
filter using ATR or standard deviation
and like I mentioned in the beginning of
the video that the fair value Gap exist
in all markets of course you can apply
now this strategy in other markets but
you need to test from scratch now I can
use the same strategy on let's say the
Dow Jones because the Dow Jones is
highly correlated with the S&P 500 this
is the result of the strategy applied to
the Dow Jones 112,000 for the Dow Jones
this is really really good 3 to1 return
to draw down ratio total trades 200
making about 550 per trade and annual
analysis it's a scratch 2007 down 2008
2010 and 28 18 and this is how the
curves looks like again it's really
really good to learn more strategies
watch this video and I will see you
[Music]
there
