if you are a Trader who is losing money
more than making money then most likely
it's because of Leverage in this video I
will show you how leverage wiped out my
account and made me lose more than
$337,000 now granted there are many
reasons why Traders lose money more than
make money but if I want to pick the top
three reasons why Traders fail then
leverage will be in the top three now
don't get me wrong Leverage is an
extremely important factor in your
trading journey in fact it is one of the
best reasons to grow your account
quickly but the slight misuse of
Leverage will wipe your account about 16
years ago I bought an indicator set this
happened at the time when I was looking
at the best indicator to trade with
because in my head I thought a single
indicator single strategy that what
makes uh Traders Rich so the three
indicators basically gave you signals to
entry and exit and the whole set work
together and I paper trade with the
whole set and of course it was
profitable so then I decided okay now
it's time to trade so I wire
$335,000 to my existing account which
had about $2,000 in it with a total of
37,000 and change now at the time the
S&P 500 E mini Futures requirement to
trade intraday was
$500 so I thought since I had $37,000
I have a big buffer to trade more
contracts and I calculated well you know
I can make four points a day that's $200
if I trade 10 contracts so that's $2,000
so I should be making around 20 to
$30,000 a month depending on my win rate
which I'm sure most of you listening to
this video are doing the same thing now
I started trading and I was making money
off and on for a week and then suddenly
I was hit with a big draw down and then
the next day another draw down so I
thought well you know the system works I
traded you know I paper trade uh the
system for a while so I thought okay now
the percentage are even higher that the
system will make money so in my uh
feeble head I decided to double the
contracts so I went from 10 contracts to
20 contracts and within two days
literally two days I over traded wiped
out my account account moral of the
story is more leverage will always yield
to more losses it's actually
mathematically buil in but it's so
hidden that Traders don't see it and
they will always welcome more leverage
of course the advantages of the Brokers
because then you trade more and you wipe
up your account and you add more money
and so on and so forth and I will prove
this to you with data so here is a
robust strategy that that's trading the
S&P 500 in Min Futures the strategy is
trading a single contract so we can see
it's a single contract starting capital
is
$225,000 for the past 18 years we make
about
$180,000 after slippage and commission
the win rate is very respectable at
about
73% average trade is about 520 and the
draw down is 32,000 return to draw down
is 5.4 this is an extremely simple St
strategy It's A Mir version strategy on
the S&P 500 long only no filters I just
wanted to illustrate to you how leverage
works so first let's start with the
historical back test this test most
likely will not be repeated in the
future that means even though this
system is robust it is profitable the
sequence of the trades most likely will
not be repeated in the same way in the
future so we can see here we are making
about $180,000 and if I change the
sequence you can see nothing change the
graph Chang but I'm still making exactly
the same amount of money same trade same
average trade same everything except for
the draw down the draw down will change
because the sequence of the trades will
determine my draw down while my total
net profit is determined by by the
number of Trades and the average trade
so I can repeat this you see every time
I change
it we have a different draw down but
it's the same net profit so if I go back
to the original and remember we are
starting with
$225,000 now the current margin
requirement for the S&P 500 is
$115,000 so if I change my starting
Capital to $20,000
well nothing changes because I still
have enough money to trade this sequence
but if I go to
[Music]
$18,000 you see now my trading stops
here this is the number of contracts and
you see my trading stopped at about 24
trades let's look at the trades you see
this is my starting Equity
$188,000 First Trade was profitable
profitable profitable and so This Is My
Equity so it went 18
1921 and then over at this trade I lost
$3,000 lost
780 profit,
1495 profit losing trade losing trade
losing trade and then when I hit this
losing Trade My Equity Falls below
$115,000 which mean I cannot trade
anymore so therefore the strategy
stopped trading so lesson one because we
have leverage we need to take care of
the this sequence of Trades meaning the
sequence of trade will decide if we can
trade the strategy or not now how can we
find out the leverage in
Futures and what's the amount of capital
needed not to fall into this drop so
first of all you need to take the price
so this is the price as I'm recording
this video the price of the S&P 500
Index it's
5625 okay so 5625
now each point in the E Min Futures is
$50 so times
$50 that means every contract in the S&P
500 E mini Futures is controlling
$281,200
but the margin requirement as of today
when I'm recording this video If you go
to any broker the margin requirement is
15,180 now this is not determined by the
broker this is is determined by The
Exchange and this moves up and down
depending on volatility so as of today
if I divide this number by the margin
requirement then I get my leverage so my
leverage today is 18 and2 so every
future contract has leverage built in of
course that's one of the advantages of
trading Futures you don't need to borrow
money to trade with leverage it's
already built in and you don't pay any
interest for it of course the
disadvantage is you need to know how to
use it so let's start here first every
Futures Contract has leverage built in
and in this case we have a 18 a half
leverage for S&P e mini this is like you
are depositing money in Forex and they
give you 18 to1 okay so we go back to
our strategy we have leverage year 18
to1 if even though the strategy is
robust this part is done we did our
research we buil the strategy it is
robust how much Capital do I need to
trade this strategy and not face the
probability in the future that I will
lose money and cannot trade anymore so
if I do a Monte Carlo testing here so
I'm starting with
$25,000 and to trade this
strategy by taking into account all the
possible Equity Curves in the future and
I run a 5,000
simulation this is the result I have a
76%
chance of ending in profits that means
there is 24% chance probability that my
account will be wiped out at some point
even though the strategy is good this is
because of Leverage now if I increase my
account to 5
5,000 now my probability goes up to
[Music]
99.68%
99.6% chance that my strategy will be
profitable at the end of whatever number
of Trades I have 300 trades or so and I
have less than 1% chance that my uh
strategy will face a WIP up so that's
how you deleverage your strategy now let
me show you what usually happens and
what I did 16 years ago now to show you
what happened to me 16 years ago I was
trading intraday and this is what's
intraday margin today so it's about uh,
1550 so let's imagine this scenario now
I start with
5500 my initial requirement is
$1,550 but now I'm going to trade more
contract because you know I can afford
it well I will trade one contract for
every $2,000 in my account that means
I'm taking more leverage so this is what
I'm doing every
$2,000 I will trade a single contract
it's it's the same strategy but for
every $2,000 in my account I'll trade
one contract and if I run the simulation
now let's see what we get I have almost
90% chance of getting wiped out 90%
chance of getting wiped out and this is
how the Leverage is working so you see I
started with
5500 and for every $2,000 I'm trading
one contract so in this case I trade two
I may
uh 1,500 so my account now is 7,000 72 8
9 11 1622 and then at this moment in
time because I'm trading more because my
account grew to 22 and for every 2,000 I
trade one contract that means now I'm
trading 11
contract and I get uh basically this is
exactly what happened to me I traded
more contract and suddenly I was hit
with a big loss but because of my number
of contracts this was Amplified and this
is exactly what happened here look at
this so400 instead of losing 2400
because I had 11 contracts I lost
26,000 plus and that wiped out my
account regardless of how many
simulations I show you the end result is
always the same more leverage always
yield to being wiped out it doesn't
matter how robust is the strategy if you
like this video then you will love the
next one
[Music]
