here I applied a strategy that shorts
the beginning of every month like I told
you the VIX Index drift lower all the
time just like the S P 500 it drifts up
all the time of course we will have the
spikes on the way up so for example this
one and again this one but even with all
the spikes the strategy is very
profitable sure thing every beginning of
the month and exiting at the end of the
month that means you are always in the
market and here I have data for almost
17 years we can see we are making about
160 thousand dollars with a maximum
drawdown of 71 000 so of course that's a
huge drawdown and it is expected because
we're holding all the time and of course
we will hold these spikes in total we
have 203 trades on average 785 dollars
per paid that is a very good average
trade and our win rate is almost 70
percent
