have you ever wished for a trading
strategy that is both simple and
effective what if I told you that such a
strategy existed since 2009 and still
making money till today and not on
single instruments but on multiple
instruments back in 2009 Larry Connors
published his book short-term trading
strategies that work and they do work
still till today there are many
strategies published in this book and
one of them is called double seven it's
saying mere version strategy there is no
surprise there as most of flurry Conor's
strategies are mere version I'm also in
that camp I'm slowly tilting towards
more mere reversion strategy the premise
of the strategy is really simple we are
looking for a pullback and in this case
it's 7 days pullback so when the close
is the lowest close compared to the
previous 7 days we will buy and when the
close revert back to the mean meaning
when the close is the highest close of
the past seven trading days we will
close the trade and here is the code in
Easy language so it's two lines if the
close is the lowest close for the past
seven days we buy and if the close is
the highest close of the past seven days
than we sell Larry Connor's added a
filter which is usually works very well
for enemy reversion strategy on the
indexes and the filter is this is the
close great than the average close of
the past 200 days basically it's a
simple moving average the past 200 days
and this is not optimized you can use
any number and it will work here I'm
using multichart and I have the data
loaded for spy Spy is the ETF for the
S&P 500 and the data here is since 1995
so the strategy is applied and we are
using all the account to buy the maximum
number of shares this is usually the
best way to test stocks and ETFs because
stocks and ETFs when you go back they
usually smaller
price and in order to make all trades
equal in strength you need to use all
the account as the best way of course
you can use position sizing but to make
it simple just use all the C and that's
why you see different number of shares
so for 10 419 393 and even though in the
account here is more money you can see
where are buying less shares is just
because the price now is a lot higher
now the usual problem with any me
reversion strategy is this when the exit
parameter doesn't happen quickly so
usually you get a big draw down see also
this even though the trade is profitable
the draw down was big now obviously what
you want is like this where you buy and
you keep going up and then you exit also
notice that we are not holding for 7
days this this is the seven is just the
close compared to previous closes so it
could happen the next bar and so you can
see here we are holding five days here
we are holding 15 days and so on and so
forth and for example this trade we are
holding only one day because the next
day the close was the highest close of
the past 7 days here is the performance
of the strategy like I mentioned we are
using the whole account to buy so we
make
$135,000 our biggest draw down is
$25,000 so that gives us 5 to1 return to
draw down ratio since
1995 and if we look at the trades we
have 274 trades and a win rate of
77% on average we making about
$500 now remember this strategy has been
trading for 28 years here but it's been
out of sample for 15 years and the
amount we are in the market is about 30%
sent and let's see the out of sample so
the book was published in 2009 and the
research was until 2007 so we have about
15 years of out of sample and in those
15 years we have four losing years and
the rest are winning years so that is a
great testimony to this simple simple
strategy now to me starting with
strategies like this and add your own
spin on it is the best way to build a
portfolio instead of trying complicated
strategies or machine algorithms just to
find strategies that are complicated I
would much rather use a simple strategy
and just add a simple spin on it like
adding my own filter and you will
already have a proven strategy because
you already see the art of sample trades
and by adding our filter we just change
the profile of the strategy and now add
it to our own portfolio but before we do
that let me just also show you that 7
days was research up to 2007 and in fact
today because there are more
participants in the market it makes
sense to make the seven days shorter but
you know we cannot just talk let's test
that theory so here we have the entry
and exit and let's test them from 2 to
10 now I expect the shorter period to
make better money but let's see so 81
combinations in
total and here are the result and if we
sort by return to draw down so here is
our original strategy out of 81
combinations our original strategy is at
32 so we have 31 strategies better than
hours and let's look at the top 10 so
three and six so that is what I expected
it's the shorter time that makes more
money so 3 six 4 and six 2 and six 4 and
five 4 and S all all the way up to here
so the first 11 strategies at the top
like I expected shorter term makes more
money or makes better risk adjusted
return but here we have three strategies
that is a surprise to me this is 10 and
four 10 and six and 10 and S I don't
know what to say but obviously we will
have less trades as you can see because
we're waiting for 10 lower closes so you
can see this is 200 200 and also this
200 while all the others are uh 400 and
500 and this is 800 now if I pick the
best risk adjusted return so this is
strategy number
one and let's look at the performance so
this is since
1995 and the out of sample is now 3
years instead of four down years but
overall the strategy performs much
better in terms risk adjusted return
which is which is basically we're saying
how much money we are making compared to
how much money we are risking next we
are going to test the original strategy
on multiple ETFs now Larry Connor in his
book he tested I think three ETFs which
probably at the time we didn't have as
money like today we have thousands so I
compiled a portfolio of roughly above 40
ETFs many countries Commodities oil gold
and sectors and so on so forth so just
to see how the strategy will perform on
these ETFs so this is a portfolio of 45
ETFs these are the Spy ETF with
different weights and then Asia Pacific
Japan small caps value caps Euro Zone in
India Canada Russell and sectors it's a
very diverse list of ETFs so let's back
test the same strategy so this is the
original strategy buying 7day close low
selling 7day close High and the filter
is the 200 day moving average and here
are the results of all ETFs and as
expected the spy and of course these
derivatives of spy and then the Dow
Jones and all these countries they all
behave almost the same way they are me
reverting and then the DBC Uso this is
oil and commodities and then this is I
think gold and this is AR invest ETF and
I don't know which one is this I forgot
but you can see that all these ETFs
perform extremely extremely well even
though they totally represent different
underlying asset so for example this is
the emerging and this is Japan this is
small cap and this is the world index
without the US I think then if we go
down and look at these these are all the
sectors so yeah yes of course they are
part of the S&P 500 Index but alone they
perform differently now previously in
the video I told you the best way to
develop new strategies is to use an all
strategy that is performing in out of
sample and add your own spin on it and
your own spin is usually a filter so the
more filters you accumulate the more
diversification you add to your Equity
curve even on the same strategy let's
see this in action here I have four
versions of the 7 strategy they're all
applied to the same data which is the
Spy this is just to show you that
diversification comes from different
strategy filters even on the same
instrument so here I have my template
strategy this is a big template I'm not
going to bore you with the details but
basically I'm using a different filter
in each strategy so for example this is
27 57 91 16 and so on and so forth the
idea is they're all using the same entry
and exit so 7 Days low to entry 7 days
high to exit but the filter now is
different instead of the 200 day moving
average I have something else and like I
always say usually Direction and
volatility are the best filters although
there are hundreds of other filters so
if we back test this now and this is
very interesting it's the same strategy
the 7 on the same instrument but I'm
only changing the filter and by just
changing the filter look at the
correlations This is highly correlated
67 this is 0.25 and this is 0.1 so this
is like totally different strategy it's
like totally different instrument this
is zero correlation now also some of you
might say well you know 67 this is you
know highly correlated but still I would
much rather split my capital in two
trade this one and this one rather than
all the capital on one strategy because
even though it's the same instrument
it's highly correlated but still I'm
getting diversification in this case I
divide my capital in four buckets and
Trade four strategies instead of trading
one strategy with all my capital and
here we can look at the performance of
this portfolio so yes we have draw Downs
that doesn't mean we get rid of draw
downs but in fact if I spend more time I
can find better filters that take care
of this draw down meaning I will find a
filter that performs better in
down markets and added to the strategy
so I make a smoother Equity curve to
learn more about Larry Connor strategies
that work watch this video and I will
see you
[Music]
there
