one of the most profitable strategies
you can add to your portfolio is a mere
version strategy trading these stock
indexes this works almost globally but
it works really well on the US indexes
and there are many indicators that we
can use to build a mere version strategy
I did build the KCC percent indicator to
get a different profile for a mirror
version strategy than say the RSI KCC
percent uses the closest to measure the
percent difference between them and then
rank those values to get an oscillator
between 0 and 100 and then you from that
you can get the signal to enter and exit
the mark and this how the indicator
looks on the chart you see it's an
oscillator and here I have the levels 75
for overbought and 25 for oversold just
like the RSI but we will get a different
profile if we trade this signal now you
might say why bother with doing doing
the same thing like the RSI or the
stochastic or the stochastic RSI the
reason is to get a different profile of
your Equity curve because for example
your RSI might be losing in 2021 and KCC
percent will be winning that doesn't say
that this indicator is better than that
indicator it's just they get a different
Equity curve and that will help you in
building a portfolio and now I'm happy
to say that KCC percent indicator is
available on multiple platforms for you
to explore build strategies with and so
on and so forth it is available on
tradestation using easy language on
multi-charge using power language on sqx
using Java and on trading View using
pinescript and on MP4 and MP5 using mql
instead of sending you on different
pages to download the indicator I put
all of them together in the community so
if you go to start Oasis Community which
is Free by the way for everybody to join
it has huge content and you can ask
questions share ideas it has all the
previous recorded stream with a database
this is the database for all questions
that are answered on video and you can
search for anything so for example if we
want to search for Monte Carlo you'll
get the episode the question number the
timestamp and what the question is so do
yourself a favor and join this great
Community now the KCC indicator will be
in the free shares where I share a lot
of code for strategies and indicators
and you can see I put everything
together here so this is where you can
get strategic Quant X and mt4 mt5 and of
course it will include tradestation
multi-charge code and also here this is
the point script for trading view it
includes the indicator and a strategy
here we are in trading view the
indicator is already there so in the
meantime you can download the indicator
and upload it to your the scripts so
once you upload the indicator to your
script it will be available under my
script and you can see here this is my
indicator and it's the same thing it has
a look back period smoothing period and
an overbought level and oversold level
also if you downloaded this spine script
package you will get a strategy and once
you upload it to your script this is the
strategy and this strategy is not coded
by me
so if we look at the code it was
developed by Michael Patrick he's a
viewer of the channel and basically used
the indicator with a strategy to go long
and short all the time in the market and
this is the strategy tested on the es if
we close this you can see this is the
indicator and these are the signals and
this strategy is always in the market
long and short so I'm really happy that
the indicator now available on multiple
platforms that you can use it to test on
other strategies of course you can use
the indicator also as a filter for other
signals for example if you build let's
say uh go along on engulfing candle
pattern you can use the KCC percent to
filter so you can only go long if it's
below 25 and you can use it also only
for exit so for example exit if it's
above 75 and so on and so forth here's
the indicator now used on a portfolio of
Futures market and I'm still using using
exactly the same indicator so look back
of seven more than three buying below 25
exiting above 75. in this case I have
the 200 day moving average as a filter
to go long or short and if we back test
this strategy since 2007 there's no
Commission in slippage just just to show
you the robustness of this indicator and
this is the chart we get and if we go to
the breakdown we can see that most
Futures Market making money of course
the indexes are the most uh will will
benefit the most of this indicator but
we also notice that gold is behaving
really well with this indicator of
soybeans and Bitcoin now Bitcoin there
are only 17 trades so I wouldn't put too
much thought behind this but then the
nice thing is when we look at this
portfolio you can see the correlation
many of them of course are red like the
DX is red with everybody and soybean
meal oil and wheat lean hog they are red
almost with a lot so the correlation is
definitely good considering we are using
exactly the same settings for all
markets now this is not new information
I share this a lot on this channel that
mirror version strategies works really
well with us indexes but also works
really well with a lot more markets than
you think of and the future portfolio
that I just showed you proves that now
it also works really well on ETFs so
here are 15 ETFs there are sectors and
indexes and this is leveraged ETF so the
Leverage is built in and if we test this
portfolio again we can see that the
correlations are not as expected so
obviously we expect the triple Q This is
the NASDAQ is highly correlated with spy
and E The Leverage NASDAQ
ETF is also highly correlated with spy
but we can see that not all of them are
so for example a CZ this is the small
cap World index it's 35 that's
considered not a lot xlu of course these
are sectors even though they are part of
the Spy they are not highly correlated
with then em this is the emerging market
and SLV these are really really low
correlation of course ivv this is it's
like the Spy except you know the
weighting are different so that's why
the huge correlation here but the
performance is actually better than the
Futures and of course I picked the the
best e ETFs that work with this
indicator
and we can see that we barely hit
14 drawdown but since 2004 this is
performing beautiful so I highly highly
recommend that you download the
indicator use it in your own systems
because the indicator produce signals
different than the RSI macd stochastic
and so on and so forth and that's the
whole point the whole point is to get a
different Equity curve even though this
is a mere reverting indicator and of
course like I mentioned you can use it
also as a filter to find more about this
indicator watch this video and I will
see you there
[Music]
foreign
[Music]
