have you ever felt that you are missing
out on the great swings in the market if
you did then you are in luck because
today I will show you a strategy that
can capture all these big swings in any
Market to do that we will use a known
strategy called Ballinger band squeeze
but we will implement it in a clever way
the Ballinger band squeeze consist of
two indicators the Ballinger bands and
the Kelner channel the difference
between these two indicator is simple
Ballinger bands adds and dedu
standard deviation amount from the
moving average while Kelner Channel add
and deduct ATR multiple from the moving
average this is how it looks like on the
chart so the green bars are the heating
oil Futures and the blue color is the
Ballinger bands the red color are the
cner channel so the upper band of the
Ballinger band uses the standard
deviation and add it to the 20day moving
average in the middle and of course the
lower channel of the Ballinger band
deduct the standard deviation from the
moving average the cner channel in the
red so the upper Channel adds a multiple
of the average true range and the lower
Channel deduct a multiple of the average
through range from the moving average
and in order to simplify how we are
going to trade this I build these two
indicators so again the blue color
represent the Ballinger band width or
the range and then the red line
represent the Kelner Channel range so we
can easily see when the Ballinger band
gets inside the cutner channel so this
is the Ballinger band and you see when
it crosses below that means the width of
the Ballinger band channel is smaller
than the width of the Kelner channel so
you can easily now decide that this is
below this is above below above and that
is our swing indicator so when the blue
line which is the Ballinger band crosses
above the red line which is the cner
channel That means we have a swing now
the only thing we don't know if the
swing is on the downside or if the swing
is on the upside and we can define that
really easy so if the cross happens and
the close is lower than the previous
close that mean we are having a swing on
the downside and if the cross happens
and the close is above the previous
close that means the swing is on the
upside this concept actually applies to
all markets because usually volatility
comes in chunks so the volatility
doesn't Spike every day up and down it
usually goes into quiet periods and into
a volatile periods and then it goes back
to quiet periods so usually these kind
of swings last for a longer time so now
I will optimize the strategy to find
where is the stable area for the heating
oil so the strategy now applied and two
that means we are going long only we
will test long and short separately so
two is long only and then the look back
period this is for the middle moving
average we will test from 2 to 30 step
two and then the Ballinger band standard
deviation we will test from .5 to 4 step
25 average through range multiple will
be from 0.5 to 4 step 25 so all in all
we will have about 2500 strategies and
these are the results and if we sort by
return to draw down and if we look at
the top these are 30 look back and then
14 12 14 and all the way but if we look
at 30 look back back with these settings
we are getting two trades only so in
reality 14 is the top so 14 14 we have
10 14 14 12 14 14 and so on so the
number 14 looks at the top so we might
as well fix 14 and then see the rest of
course there is an easier way to look at
this if we open the 3D graph and if we
look at the graph so this is the net Pro
profit So currently the net profit is
fixed at 100 this is the blue plane and
then everything above it is green
everything below it is red so the red
doesn't mean we are losing money it's
just we are below $100,000 profit and
let me show you something so if I bring
this this way so this is 10 look back
this is 12 this is 14
16 and you you see a
pattern and the pattern is very
clear it's anything we pick on the
standard
deviation the Kilner channel is about
70% so you can see here when the
standard deviation is three the cult
channel is two and when this is 2 and a
half this is one and a half and so on
and so forth so actually we can simplify
our
strategy and pick the C Channel ATR
multiple to be always about
67% of the standard deviation now why
this is very important because the less
variables you have in a strategy the
more robust it is and also of course you
have less things to optimize so less
chances to overfit your strategy okay
now I can fix this at zero because it
doesn't matter it will be picked from
the standard deviation it will always be
about 67% of the standard deviation so
now we can optimize this from 1 to 4
step. 25 and we keep the look back and
we have 143 combinations this is
capturing the long swings and if we sort
by return to draw down we have an
extremely good strategy in fact we have
many of them look at this the top 24
they're all doing more than 2 to one
return to draw down ratio and now we are
building a portfolio of this squeeze
strategy so here I have five markets for
longside soybeans heating oil Bitcoin
gasoline and NASDAQ and then I have five
markets for the short side natural gas
vix Euro US dollar Japanese US dollar
and lean Hogs and if we test those
strategies we have a beautiful equity
chart also if we look at the annual
period since 2006 we have only two
losing years where to 2024 it's only one
month so it's not yet known so we have
only one losing year so far and this is
the beautiful part this is the weekly
correlation between these strategies and
the only one is the gasoline with the
heating oil which is expected and this
one is about 60% but the rest are almost
zero correlation so even though we are
using using the same strategy and we
limit the optimization only for the look
back and the standard deviation we are
getting huge
diversification on multiple markets
which leads to higher profits and lower
draw down so here is the breakdown by
symbol and now you will be surprised at
how these chart looks like so this is
the equity for soybeans then heating oil
Bitcoin gasoline NASDAQ Natural Gas
vix Euro US dollar Japanese US dollar
and lean Hogs so other than the vix
everything else looks like crap but when
you combine them you get this great
Equity chart and that's because the low
correlation between these strategies to
learn more about Ballinger bands watch
this video and I will see you
[Music]
there
[Music]
