if you are a Trader most likely you
watch a lot of YouTube videos to get
ideas about strategies to implement and
if you are watching a lot of YouTube
videos about strategies then most likely
you came about video promoting RSI and
Bollinger Bands these videos put you
know numbers and thousands of dollars
and secrets and the best of blah blah
blah now I have debunked this before in
this video and you can watch that when
you are building a strategy it makes no
sense to layer the same indicators even
they have different name Bollinger band
and RSI both are measuring pullbacks now
you can change the look back period and
you can have a different
plotting of these indicators but at the
end of the day they are doing the same
thing and here is what I mean so this is
the US dollar Swiss franc daily bar and
the blue channels are the Bollinger
Bands with 20-day moving average and two
standard deviation and the bottom graph
we can see the RSI 7 with 30 and 70
levels and clearly we can see that
anytime the Bollinger Bands move up we
can see the RSI is up and when they move
down measuring pullbacks the RSI is down
again here they're above the channel RSI
is above below the channel here below
the channel here same thing with the RSI
it's rarely that they don't overlap
right for example here this is a
pullback below the channel and the RSI
didn't make it but also I can easily
make a filter because we can clearly see
here that the Bollinger Bands they are
not expanding look at the width of this
Bollinger band so I can easily put a
filter on the width of the channel same
as the width of the RSI between 30 and
70. from the graphics you can easily
tell they are doing the same thing
exactly even though sometimes very few
times they don't overlap but most of the
time they do overlap still we will test
to verify and this is the strategy
applied in multi-charge so I am using
the Swiss franc Futures Contract which
represents the US dollar Swiss franc and
Bollinger band is the same 20-day moving
average to a standard deviation and RSI
7 with 30 and 70 levels so we will go
along when the close below the lower
Bollinger Bands and when the RSI below
30 and we will short on the opposite
side so we short when the close above
Bollinger Bands and the RSI above 70.
and I have a small filter which is when
the price goes above we wait when the
price to come back in and then we short
same thing when the price go below we
wait when the price goes back in to go
long this will save us from
something like this
you can see when this one goes below we
don't go automatically long we are
waiting for the close to get in so this
filter can be implemented many ways for
example you can see if the expansion
accelerating then also you can skip that
trade this is the way I implement it
which is the close has to be below the
lower Bollinger Bands in a certain
threshold and then gets back in and then
we can go along so applying the strategy
we get the following performance we make
82 000 which is really good for the
Swiss franc and 37 000 in a drawdown the
curve looks like this we only have a
problem here in in the beginning in
2011. this is about 30 percent drawdown
and we can easily mitigate this with a
filter but first of all let me show you
the effect of the RSI currently we have
109 trades and we're making on average
757 dollars so if I remove the condition
for the RSI to align with the Bollinger
Bands and let's build that strategy we
get more trades and the long side suffer
so if we go back unfortunately we don't
get rid of the drawdown remember the RSI
did not affect the short Side by much
but it did affect the long trades so
long trades 50 making 210 and if we put
the filter back on this is the RSI
filter only for long trades so instead
of 50 we get rid of 11 trades and these
are the bad trades so the RSI worked in
our favor only for the long side this is
now another filter which is extremely
simple it's the close below the 50-day
moving average for long and above the
50-day moving average for short and it
matches the behavior of the RSI we can
see that we are making 77 losing the
same amount of the throw down and we can
see it's actually still in the same
place so the RSI and the moving average
which is a lot simpler achieve the same
thing so that confirms my initial
position which is the RSI will not add a
lot to this strategy and finally I'm
going to show you another filter this is
momentum filter and this reduces the
trades almost by half so we're making
again half the money but but look at the
drawdown the drawdown now is 11. so it
went from 36 to 11. that is a huge drop
in the drawdown and now this is
combining the long RSI filter and the
short momentum filter
and now I am satisfied that we can get
Best of Both Worlds look at this the
curve now still moving up all the time
and we are making new highs and our
drawdown now went from 30 to something
around 12 percent so basically with a
simple filter like momentum which is the
close higher than the previous two bars
we can get much better results than the
RSI which makes a lot of sense because
momentum is totally different than the
pullback that RSI is measuring but all
this happened on only the Swiss franc
which of course is not enough we barely
have 100 trades so let's do the test on
a portfolio so this is a portfolio of 39
instruments covering crypto currencies
bonds energy agriculture indexes and
lyrics now this is Bollinger Bands with
the two filters long using the RSI and
short using momentum so looks like the
losing strategies are more than the
winning strategies I mean yes these are
positive but really this is not if you
include commission and slippage many of
these will turn to losing strategies but
we can pick inside this portfolio and we
will find that some instrument match
this style of trading let's look at
wheat
and this also looks good I mean same
thing we have about 15 drawdown curve is
going up
let's see what else we have here so this
is copper
that's very ugly I will not use it and
let's look at gold and gold looks really
good so again about 15 of drawdown but
Gold's making more than 200 000 and
curve is up and vix this is horrible ym
daily
again this is horrible
NASDAQ daily again I would not touch
this this is 40 drawdown after 10 years
so that's definitely not usable
and of course we know the es is good for
Mirror version but look at this I mean
I've done so many strategies on the es
using the RSI 2 that beats the crap out
of the strategy
so we barely have three instruments that
are usable with this strategy so we got
three instruments that work with this
front that's better than zero I mean we
did some research we found out some good
strategies that we need to work on but
overall the theme stays the same which
is don't layer same style of indicator
and astrology to learn more secrets
about Bollinger Bands Make sure to watch
this video and I will see you
[Music]
foreign
[Music]
