in a previous video I talked about
strategy filter types I talked about the
categories and showed you some examples
of filters that we can use later on in
the newsletter that I published weekly I
showed an example of a Bas strategy and
I applied different filters on it and
showed you the results of those filters
on the same strategy and from the
feedback I concluded that not all people
got what the filters do they think they
are an optimization of a strategy that
achieve better results but in reality it
is not so I thought I explained this in
a video so this video I will show you a
type of filter how it works and how it
filters strategies and I'll show you
example of a strategy on gold Futures
now most of the time I use the S&P 500
futures with the rsi2 strategy as the
base because by now I've done hundred of
variations of the strategy and I know
exactly how it behaves so I know
immediately see if the filter is working
or not but I chose to apply to a
different instrument and different time
frame just to show you that these
filters will work on any type of
strategy you produce so for this video I
chose the gold futures from 8:00 a.m. to
1:30 p.m. New York time now this is not
some Voodoo time frame you can do this
by looking at the intraday volume and
you pick the most active time that this
Futures is being traded so once once you
find that 8 to 130 p.m. you make a
special session a custom session that
encapsulate all these time frames in
this case from 8 to 130 p.m. that's 330
minutes so although I will be using a
daily time frame but the day session is
between 8 and 1:30 now this is one of
the pillars of the algot trading master
class which is you need to diversify
your strategies with time frame better
than instrument because you see now this
time frame has nothing to do with the
exchange time frame and it you will get
different results by applying different
patterns on this session so let's start
with a simple directional filter
directional filter as the name suggests
it will tell us the direction of the
instrument we are trading so it will
filter if the direction is up or down
for that instrument so here I have the
gold Futures with 300 30 minutes session
so this is the active session that I
told you about it's from 8:00 a.m. to
1:30 p.m. New York time and I have the
200 day moving average so this can be
considered a directional filter when the
price is above the 200 day moving
average we are in a bull market and when
it's below we are in a bare Market here
is the same indicator now colored for
slope so this is when the slope is up
it's green and when the slope is down is
red so the same indicator we can use it
as the close above the indicator we are
in a bull market we can also say we are
in a bull market and the slope is up
because here for example the price is
above so we are in a bull market but the
slope is down here is the opposite we
are in a bull market because the close
is above the 200 day moving average the
slope is up but the price is going down
so from a single indicator we can drive
many filters because each one is doing
something different but very important
to notice that a 190 day moving average
is not a different filter because the
200 day moving average to the 190 day
moving average should not produce
significant changes in your strategy and
if it does that means you are over
optimizing so you need to have a
significant change in the look back to
make that a new filter so for example if
you are using the 200 day moving average
then you should at least use the 100 day
or the 50-day moving average now in
strategy Quant X you can take those
different types that I told you so for
example the price is above the 200 day
and the slope is up that's a one filter
and the price is above the 200 day and
the slope is down that's another filter
and you can use those filters in build
Builder to generate different strategies
with these different filters the reason
I use optimization in multicharts or
trade station it's because I need to
trick the platform to go through all
these filters through the optimization
because they don't have this Builder
workflow in strategy quantex so that's
why we need to trick the platform so
what I do is I number these filters from
let's say 1 to 100 and I say okay
optimize by changing the numbers but in
reality I'm just trying different
filters for the same strategy so I'm not
optimizing the filter I'm just using
different filter through the
optimization so this is the same chart
and this is the 200 day moving average
and now I added my market regime
indicators these are proprietary uh
indicators they are included with the
alot trading masterclass which by the
way is open now depending on when you
see this video and if you click the link
and the enrollment is closed just
register so you'll be notified for next
enrollment so what does this directional
filter do it's basically a clever way of
incorporating many signals into one
green that means we are in a bull market
yellow it means we are in a sideways
market and red means we are in a bare
market and same indicator also has have
a slope so it goes up and goes down and
above zero and below zero so just like I
told you with the 200 day moving average
I can derive many filters from the same
indicator below it is the same concept
but now this is for volatility so
volatility is red is very volatile green
is quiet and yellow is normal it's like
the sideways and again we have
volatility rising and volatility falling
and again from these combinations I can
build many filters so this is very
important point to grasp so I'm not
optimizing the strategy signal so the
signal could be the highest high the
lowest low an oscillator below a level
above a level or a breakout above a
level all these signals are fixed what
I'm testing is a different environment
for that signal so I test different
environment to see when that signal give
me the best results so then I know that
signal is suited for this environment
and to drive this point further I will
show you a detailed statistics of the
filters that I just showed you so this
is a strategy on the gold Futures that I
showed you 330 minutes day session and
basically here I am buying every day and
selling the next day so I I buy the open
I sell the next open and I registered
the state of each filter so I have
long-term filter short-term filter and
volatility filter and then long-term
slope short-term slope volatility slope
and this is the volume slope I'm not
going to use the volume here because I
don't want to complicate things these
are all the trades I have about
4,300 so these are all the trades
aggregated so I have the
longterm directional filter this can be
equated to the SMA 200 and I have the
shortterm directional filter this can be
equated to the SMA 30 and then I have
the volatility filter this can be
equated to the ATR 20 average through
range 20 bars this is the total of all
trades so we have 4,300 trades and then
here the values are the average standard
deviation maximum and minimum for each
column so this is volume
this is range so let's focus here out of
about 4,300 trades the bull market is
about 1,700 the bare Market is, 1500 and
the sideway is about 1,000 these are the
percentages so we spent 40% of the time
in bull market 35% in bare Market 24% in
sideways and then rising and falling
about the same for short term I'm
spending about 50% in bull market and
30% in bare market and 22% in sideway so
you that's what I'm telling you you need
to separate the filters a lot to get a
different Behavior so in this case we
went from 200 to 30 to get this
different Behavior again the rising and
falling is about the same and then
volatility so volatility we spending 40%
of the time in volatile Market 133% of
the time in normal market and almost 50%
of the time in a quiet Market that's
below normal that means the volatility
is very very low again about the same
rising and falling the average of what
we make in the bull market if we buy
every day the open sell every day the
next open so that means we're holding
one bar
$13.56 no commission and slippage but
then in the bare Market same thing we
are B buying and selling the next day we
are making $50 and then in sideways we
are making
8.72 so the differences are huge
obviously if I want to go long in Gold I
should be going long in bare market and
then gold makes
$51.50 in shortterm bull market and
almost scratch in bare market and
sideways so it's completely different
picture than this this is the average of
every day also very noticeable that
falling slope of longterm is more than
double the performance of the rising
slope same thing in the short term and
finally for volatility it looks like
normal
volatility and volatile Market in the
gold Futures are much better these both
of these filters are much better than
this one now to get the exact results so
if I pick this regime so this is
long-term bear I can come here and
select long-term
bear so this filter produces
$50 on average it spends 1521 days which
we know already from here and these are
the results for the average the standard
deviation maximum minimum and the sum
for example this strategy will make
$75,000 if I buy every day in the
morning sell in the next morning in this
market regime so it looks like a lot of
information which it is but I just
wanted to prove to you how these Filter
Works and why do they work it's just
they are a different environment for
every instrument so if you apply these
Market regimes uh to any instrument it
will give you a different picture for
every instrument now of course this will
be be very tedious and it will take I
don't know a lot of time and hundreds of
hours just to research every single
strategy and bring it here and see which
one in the Excel so a much better way is
to take all these filters number them
and then just run an optimization on
your signal to see which filter performs
the best okay so for the same Futures I
chose the RSI 2 strategy but this time
we are using it as a breakout signal
because remember the gold is positive it
has a positive tendency so we want to go
long and so I'm going long when the RSI
2 above 75 example here the price is
above 75 we go long next bar and I'm
holding for four bars so 1 2 3 four I
sell and then the next time here the
price above 75 I buy X bar I sell four
bars again the price here is up I buy X
bar and so on so forth so for example
here you can see we did not cross and
then we cross here above 75 we buy an
xar and we sell after three bars and now
we will optimize the filters so again we
are not optimizing the strategy we are
just running the strategy through
multiple filters by tricking the
platform into optimizing through the
number of filters so what I'm doing here
is I'm running
248 combinations of my market regime
filters you need to build filters that
is significantly different from the next
adjacent filter so while yes you can
build hundreds and hundred hundreds of
filters it's much better to focus on
different filters basically you are just
producing to your strategy a different
environment so this is dry this is cold
this is hot and which one the strategy
thrives in that's the one you're going
to keep and then you get rid of the rest
and these are the results of the uh
filters that we tested so this is the
number of the filter and the results are
sorted by return to draw down and you
can see we went from the best average in
the Excel sheet was
$50 and here we have like 400 600
800 uh 2 400 many many strategies with
over 100 trades and over 400
on average so for example this filter
103 is the shortterm bull market and the
long-term bare market so basically I am
trading these two so this is 49 alone
this is 51 Alone by combining them
remember we are not adding the averages
when the when we combine them we are
basically getting the best out of both
which is in this case 46 $68 on average
now look at this 95 which is lower in
terms of retent to draw down but it's
almost making double the amount of money
this filter 95 is the shortterm bull
market and sloping down and by the way
the difference is also going to be huge
in the equity so let's look at this one
so let me pick this
one and let's look at the
equity but now let's go to the adjacent
one which is making less money so this
one 55 and let's pick that one this
strategy now is going up all the time
and it's not making anything from 2015
till uh 2021 but this time the strategy
is totally different because it's flat
most of the time look at this this
straight line means it's not trading
this one is here this one is here in
fact we can see that from time analysis
look at this it's almost % only in the
market so that means 90% of the time
this strategy is not trading so this
will be excellent to add it to a
portfolio because you can use the same
Capital to trade other strategies now
let's look at this one which looks like
in between it's making
77 and the draw down is 24 and this
strategy looks like just uh going up
slowly every year and as you see from
the same signal which is not optimized
not nothing I just know that the gold is
positive it will work well with long
strategies so any signal I take going
long should work now some signals will
work better than others but most of the
time any signal long will work on gold
then I pair it with just a filter and
already I am way ahead of many other
Traders who's trying to sculp and five
minutes and support the resistance
distance and Fibonacci and all this
mambo jumbo really it's picking the
instrument uh personality
characteristics match that with a signal
add the right filter and you are way
ahead now you can still work on this
strategy I showed you now three you can
combine 10 of them that's a portfolio
going long on gold you can add then stop
loss profit Target change the number of
days remember I'm exiting here fixed at
three days because I just want to show
you the performance but probably that's
not optimal probably the optimal it's 2
days or 10 days I don't know so that's
more testing but just driving the point
filters are like one of the pillars of a
strategy it's entry exit and a filter if
you like this video then you will love
this one so make sure to jump in and I
will see you there
[Music]
