in the world of trading consistency is
your best friend it's not the number of
trades or how much you make or how much
you lose but the discipline in sticking
to your strategy that counts this means
setting your rules and more importantly
following them I remember back in 2008
when the subprime bubble burst of course
you know the world was ending and most
of my strategies the breakout ones
started to go long around April May and
June I didn't take any of those signals
why because obviously I was afraid I
didn't have the discipline to follow
them the result instead of getting out
of my draw down in 4 months 6 months 10
months it took me 2 and a half years
instead to get out of my draw down and
as usually the case this hard lesson
became a turning point in my trading
career the reason I'm telling you this
story is I don't want you to go through
it instead use my mistakes to your
benefits learn from it this will only
speed up your learning curve
