average through range is a very popular
indicator it can be used in many
different ways in this video we will
discuss if it can be used as a trailing
stoploss welcome back everyone I am Ali
casy from stat ois Channel and before
everything let me show you what is an
average true range here is an
illustration of the true range if
today's high and today's low engulf the
day before then that's easy the true
range is the High minus the low but if
there's a gap between today's low and
yesterday's close or between today's
high and yesterday's close then we need
to add that distance to the whole range
to get the true range so basically the
true range is the whole range of today
plus whatever Gap is between today's low
and yesterday's close or today's high
and yesterday's close although this is
very easy to calculate but you don't
need to worry about it as this indicator
is available in every trading in every
charting platform so let me show you how
it looks like on the chart so here at
the bottom I have the average true range
for the past 20 days it's basically
calculating the true range every day
adding it for the past 20 days and
divide it by 20 so we get this curve and
there are two simple ways to use this
average through range as a stop- loss so
if we are long we need to deduct this
amount from the current close to Define
it as the stop loss so let me zoom in
here and let's say for example I am
going long here so the close here is
let's say 3980 and my average through
range here is about 80 that means every
day the S&P 500 in this case is moving
by 80 points up or down so if I put two
atrs that means 160 points theoretically
my stop loss will not hit as often now
instead of doing this manually by
calculating this and plotting it here we
have another indicator that can plot
this on the chart so if you go to
indicators there is a trailing stop by
Sean and if we click it this is what we
get so basically this is calculating the
close minus the ATR and
plotting this line as the stop loss and
if that stop loss get hit then we will
flip we will calculate the low from the
ATR we can click on this and of course
you can customize it so in this case I
have the 10 period ATR with a multiplier
of three that means I have the three
times the average through range of the
past 10 days days plotted on the
instrument here I have the gasoline
Futures and the reason I put this is to
illustrate the problem of the trailing
ATR you see the gasoline Futures is a
trend following instrument meaning it
Trends most of the time and because if
it Trends most of the time this ATR
trailing stop will work very good so you
can see here if we entered here you exit
here and if you enter short here you
will exit around here because the
instrument is trending it's hard to hit
this ATR stop loss the problem comes
when we are not trending so if we switch
now to this phase of the gasoline Market
we can see where we enter here we exit
at a loss we short here we exit at a
loss we enter long here we exit at the
loss and so on and so forth so when the
market is trending it's very easy to
have this 8 R trailing stoploss working
very nicely with the system but when the
market is not trending the ATR trailing
stop loss will not work as good now this
is all good and dandy when we are
looking at the charts but of course as
always on this channel we have to test
to verify the theory so here we have the
gasoline Futures and I'm using a trend
following strategy on this instrument
like I mentioned the Gaz Futures works
very good with Trend following
strategies and in this case I am using
the linear regression as the strategy
the strategy is very easy we will go
along when the linear regression angle
goes up and we will exit when the linear
regression angle goes down so let me
zoom in and here we will see how the
strategy is working so look at the blue
line here so when it takes up we enter
the market when it takes down we exit
takes up we enter the market and here it
takes down we exit we are entering the
next day so that's why it's always one
day late and this is the performance of
the strategy it's making
$100,000 with about
$53,000 draw down trade analysis on
average we are making
$895 per trade with 110 trades in total
for the past 17 years here is an
optimization of the look back period for
the linear regression so from 20 to 200
step of 10 these are the results and if
I sort by return to draw down we can see
100 130 160 110 and 80 we are doing very
well so from 70 to 160 we are doing very
well with this strategy I'm going to
pick the best one to test the ATR
trailing stop okay so this is my
strategy now and 114 trades on average
we are making 13 $100 40% W rate which
is very expectable for a trend following
strategy and this is how the curve looks
like now we will test if the ATR
trailing stop will make a difference so
on the left here we have the original
strategy we go along when the angle of
the linear regression is up and we exit
when the angle of the linear regression
is down on the right here we are
entering the same way when the angle of
the linear regression is up but we are
exiting with a trailing stop and the
trailing stop is optimized through the
ATR so we have the multiplier from 05
to6 and we have the look back of the ATR
from 5 to 50 so overall a 120
combinations so we are looking to beat
$151,000 in profits and
$50,000 in draw down so sorting by net
profit we can can see that we don't make
a better version of the top optimized
version remember this is the top
optimization and here the top is barely
close to it but if I sort
by the ATR I can see that I have a
stable region here so this is 05
multiplier and different speeds so 30 35
40 45 and 50 they're all making
good trades so the average trade is very
close number of Trades is very close and
the draw down and the Prof net profit is
good also so overall if I want to use
the
ATR then this would be a stable region
maybe 05 and 35 so this is the
multiplier and this is the look back
even though this makes less profit than
this one but remember this is a overfit
strategy on the left now I can optimize
all of them together to find the stable
region so you can see here I will
optimize the look back the ATR length
and the multiplier so overall I have
2,200 combination now since I have these
variables I have a 3D representation I
put the slider here at about $100,000 in
profits and here I have the net profit
so this line here I have the look back
period of the linear regression and here
I have the multiplier so this the third
V variable is listed here which is the
uh look back of the ATR now what we want
to find is a stable area so let me
scroll through them so this is good I
can see a stable area here and this is
even better so you can see here a lot of
green shows up and that tells me that
this is stable so now I can pick maybe
this one this one or even this one and
these will be a stable area so let's see
so we have 25 let's see if we have more
here and then nothing changed so 25 is
good so okay look back period of ATR is
25 and now I will pick this area so this
is a 100 on the linear regression look
back and going through on this side this
is five the multiplier for Trend
following strategies it looks like ATR
can help help a little bit I'm not happy
with it but you know it can be used and
this is where the ATR should shine so of
course I expect a horrible result if I
test it on mirror version so let's do
that so here on the left I have the RSI
strategy below 25 we go long above 75 we
exit and if we look at the strategy it's
$98,000 in profits with $26,000 in draw
down 4 to1 return to draw down ratio
ratio this is how it looks like on the
right here I have the strategy with the
ATR as the exit so we enter when the
rsi2 below
25 but we exit with the ATR trailing
stop so let's optimize and find out so
we're optimizing the ATR from 5 to 50
this is the look back and the multiplier
from 526 so here we have the original
strategy of the RSI RSI 2 below 25 we go
long rsi2 above 75 we exit and here on
the right is the optimization with the
entry rsi2 below 25 exit with the ATR
stop loss and we have many strategies
that beats this number but none of the
top strategies beats the draw down so we
see here we're making almost 100,000
10030 29 25 all the way to
110 but all of them make almost 1 and
1/2 to two times the draw down so yes we
make more money but we suffer in the
draw down also we suffer a lot in the
number of Trades here we have 242 trades
and over here this one is 279 and this
one is 104 and this one is 102 this is
the only one that's above 200 trades and
this is the difference between the two
so this is an overfit strategy with the
ATR and this is the original strategy
with only RSI remember this strategy
does not have any filter so of course I
can make this much better and I have a
million version of this strategy on the
channel to make it better so again the
ATR here did not perform so while ATR
looks extremely nice on the charting
software and it makes sense looking at
it but when we test it it doesn't
perform as well and actually this is the
case for all stop now if you are a
viewer of the channel you've heard me
say this that I don't use stoploss you
should use other ways to manage risk or
use a catastrophic stoploss where it is
the last thing that you want to hit it's
much better to mix strategies mix Styles
in a portfolio and manage your risk that
way to learn more about trading watch
this video and I will see you
[Music]
there
[Music]
