hello everyone and welcome back to St
OES Channel my name is Ali Casey and
today we are delving into the latest
update from strategy Quant X the
platform released version 137 this
August and there are many enhancement
that I'm sure will excite the trading
Community starting off is the spotlight
on the final version of the stock picker
engine sqx team has ironed out all the
known bugs in the stock picker engine
and they are making it ready to trade
live on the algo Cloud which is set to
launch this December now let's talk
about the new algo wizard editor algo
wizard has been Rewritten from scratch
to be compatible with the algo Cloud
platform and I can tell you now it is
much snappier than before and also the
discrepancies between the other
platforms and algo wizard are reduced a
lot you can see now we can have multiple
strategies open and you can work on all
of them at the same time the custom
blocks and random groups are over here
and I can tell you already it's very
Snappy so for example this is a simple
strategy that trades the S&P 100 stocks
so it looks at if the open is greater
than the 250-day moving average RSI
below 30 the price of the stock is more
than $10 and the volume is more than
250,000 shares then it enters on a
another move down and then it exits
after 20 bars or after the price above
the 7day exponential moving average so
remember this is trading on 500 stocks
but using the position score we will
only trade 10 stocks at a time so the
maximum positions we have is 10 and we
will use this criteria to rank our
strategies and this is the strategy
performance results it's making 2 and a
half million since 1990 these are the
list of Trades and you can see the
number of shares is using 10% per
position so whatever our account is 10%
of that goes to a single position
because we have maximum of 10 position
and here we have the log of all the
position when we enter when we exit the
equity chart and so on and so forth also
we notice that we have new graphics here
this is a much better for readability on
the dark background and there are some
few changes so for example here you can
see now we have a version two of
stagnation let me explain this to you
and if we can zoom here so you see
before this Red Bracket this is the old
stagnation where it takes the highest
high and it looks when we get into
another high now the new stagnation
which is version two basically it looks
that for example since this point in
2014 we were going up but at one point
we went below this point so that means
since 2014 until 2020 in fact we did
nothing because we are back below that
point so that's the stagnation period so
only after this point where we broke a
new high above this high and we didn't
go back so stagnation 2 I think it's a
much better representation now also
because of this new custom block engine
for algo Cloud we can build our own
ranking factors so you see this is the
original strategy and now I'm using my R
ranking which is actually a copy of this
and just written in a custom block and
you can see we have the same performance
but now if I change my position score so
I'm going to use now the RSI
ranking and let's run the
test so now this is worse so you can see
the original strategy is making 788 with
25.6 draw down and the RSI writing is
worse but now if I use another method to
rank so this time I'm going to use the
momentum
ranking and now you can see we are much
better so the original strategy is
making 788 compound annual growth rate
with
25.67514 we saved 20% of our draw down
and we enhance our compound annual
growth rate by less than 1% but remember
because this is since
1990 this less than 1% translates to
about
$700,000 in terms of uh absolute money
earned also I like these new colors
because before these were all gray and
you couldn't tell and now the draw down
percent draw down are in red and you can
easily find that out for the Mac users
in the house good news now version 137
works on M1 and M2 without anything
although they say you need to look up uh
what's needed on the website to make it
work on M2 but I just downloaded the
version there and I just installed it
and it's running flawlessly the bad news
is although I have the latest M2 Max Pro
loaded with 96 gab of ram the
performance unfortunately doesn't match
my latest test PC so the number of
strategies generated it's almost half
what I get on my PC but still if you
have a Mac laptop and you want to take
it on the road uh without parallels you
have now a version for Mac that works
flawlessly back testing is crucial for
any algo Trader and strategy quantex
team made some fixes to the engines and
now it's has much better compatibility
with multicharge race station and mt4 so
for simple strategies I I found that it
is excellent actually but for
complicated strategies unfortunately
you're still looking for
correlation rather than the exact number
of Trades and the average trade and so
on so forth but still I can tell that
137 is much better than 135 of course
136 is out because we don't want to talk
about that version so here we have
version 135 on the left and version 137
on the right and and I loaded rsi2
strategy it's an extremely simple
strategy RSI 2 below 25 we buy when the
rsi2 above 75 we sell there are no
profit Target no exit after number of
bars there are no conditions nothing
it's a plain simple so just we can
compare and we are running it on the
same data which is the export from trade
station this is the S&P 500 futures
daily session also same amount of data
on both both you can see and we are
using the same money management so
100,000 and we are using one contract
fixed and the results here can see we
are making 160,000 with
31675 draw down and if we check version
135 we are making 161 so the difference
is very uh minimal and the draw down is
31675 exactly the same number of Trades
338 338 so exactly the same so now I'm
going to copy the code from both and
insert it into two charts in multi-
charts to see the difference so in multi
charts here this is both the same charts
I just did the different representation
this these are bars and these are uh
candlesticks so on the left I exported
the code from version 135 and on the
right I exported the code from version
137 and here we can see both perform
exactly the same so the code from 135
and 137 performs exactly the same now we
are going to compare both in a little
bit complex strategy so it's the same
RSI but now the entry is a limit order
with 25% below the close also we will
exit after three bars or an ATR profit
Target of two or a trailing stop of 28
RS also and same thing here you can see
we are entering at limit uh same
conditions so let's run a full back test
here and let's run a full back test here
and now if we check both strategies we
can still see that the performance is
very close so 113,000 profits here is
112 So it's almost about 1,000 the
difference between number of Trades is
one and same draw down and again here I
put version 135 here and version 137
here and if we look at the results it's
again exactly the same 105 uh percent
profitable 61 428 Raad of course the
equity curve is matching very much the
equity curve in sqx as you can see here
version
137 and this is multi-charge version 135
and the equity curve is exactly the same
now the problem arise when you use the
data mining feature of strategy Quant X
to build strategies and then take those
to multicharge or mt4 or trade station
from my testing there are still
discrepancies between sqx and those
platforms but the equity curve is highly
correlated and that's what I teach my
students all the time is you want to
look for the correlation and forget
about the exact number of trades or the
exact amount of profits or Draw down in
my head this game will never end because
sqx will always try to follow up what
trade station or multicharge or mt4 is
doing in their engines and their updates
in fact just today trade station updated
their engine so when I updated trade
station whatever they did sqx doesn't
know and now they have to figure it out
and they have to match it and so on so
forth but at least if the equity curve
is correlated then I don't mind of
course as always data plays a big role
in that discrepancy so you always need
to match the data that are testing with
the data that you will trade on of
course in my test I am trading on trade
station or multicharts using trade
station data and that's where I imported
into sqx to test so as to reduce the
discrepancies as much as possible and
that will bring us to the data manager
they did a lot of enhancement to the
data manager it's more stable now and of
course now you have the stock groups and
you can Define your own groups in terms
of ETFs or stocks or anything that you
want want to put inside a group in data
manager now we have a special tab for
stock groups basically here you can add
any group that you like and the
advantage here is you will get rid of
survivorship bias so you can see in the
number here for example the S&P 500 the
number of stocks currently is 543 but
the total number of stocks is 12294
that's because since
1980 there have been 1294 stocks that
were in inside the S&P 500 at one point
in time so this group here will have the
dates of the stocks that went in and
went out so when you test any strategy
on the group it will have the exact
matching stocks at that day that you are
testing so for example if you are
testing any strategy on the S&P 500
let's say in 2004 the constituents of
the S&P 500 in 2004 are different from
today and therefore this engine now will
trade on the stocks that are part of
that list in 2004 so you will get a much
better accurate results than today so
that is an extremely important feature
and also you can add your own group with
your own date so for example let's say
you want to add the M highest momentum
uh stock so you build your filter and
you get your stocks and then you can say
when that stock enter your group and
when it exited your group so this is of
course huge it will open a huge
opportunity for new strategies on
special group or special sectors inside
the uh stock market but that's not all
there have been several updates in the
preceding months like the addition of
new Snippets new indicators and the News
stable algorithm for T free mt5 expert
advisor which I know nothing about
because I don't use Mt platform now
strategy Quant continues to evolve
addressing user reported issues
enhancing its platform for better for
more efficient algorithmic trading
Journey as you can see they are not
stopping at version 137 in fact they're
already working on 138 resolving all the
bugs all the time this is like a
NeverEnding task and of course that is
an extremely good news for us Traders
because that means that the team will
always make sure that the platform works
better of course I'll be keeping a close
I on the launch of the algo cloud and
you can expect a detailed review Once
that happens to check out my full
tutorial on how to build strategies
using strategy Quant X click on this
video and I will see you
[Music]
there
