this is the equity chart of a portfolio
based on Turtle Traders strategy
unfortunately the strategy doesn't work
well you might say what the heck is the
portfolio you just showed me so I should
correct myself the strategy works but
not in the way that you think the ttal
trader strategy is a trend following
strategy it was popularized by Dennis
Richard because he brought regular
people and he taught them how to trade
using this strategy and in fact his
strategy is laid out clearly in this
book by Michael Kil and this book is
what put me on this algo trading path
because you can easily program it and
see the results of the strategy now the
strategy is still being traded by
billions of dollars it's the most
popular strategy in the hedge fund
industry so first I will show you the
strategy how it works how we can build a
portfolio out of it but why it will not
work for you the strategy is extremely
simple it's called Trend following
because you are usually following the
trend when the price Mak a new high you
are usually following in the footstep of
the price and you are buying this high
in the hope that the high will continue
to make higher highs and the same goes
for the short side so when the price
makes a new low then you are shorting
that instrument in the hope that the
price keep going down making lower lows
so here is an example of the strategy
applied to the gasoline Futures at the
bottom of the chart here I have the
linear regression indicator so so this
is the angle of the linear regression
and basically the strategy will buy when
the 100 day linear regression angle goes
up and we will sell when the 100 day
linear regression angle goes down so you
can see when it's up it's green when
it's down it's red this is the equity
chart of the
performance and we are making about
$240,000 61 return to draw down ratio
and if we look at our average trade is
about
$2,000 and 41% profitable this is very
good for a trend following strategy this
is the annual period analysis since 2007
and as you can see we are making money
most of the years so now if we optimize
this strategy by changing the look back
period of the linear regression so we'll
go from 40 to 240 step 10 we will get 21
strategies and this is the result of the
optimization so if I sort by return to
draw down you can see that the 100 day
look back is the peak the next best
thing is 110 at
172,000 the next best thing is 70 13060
and 80 and here we stumble on the first
problem of this strategy which is
picking the look back period what is the
best look back period that will work on
multiple markets now in this strategy I
just showed you we are using the same
look back period to enter and exit of
course we can change that and actually
Dennis Richard uses half the look back
period for exit so if you entering with
100 then you are exiting with 50 so now
I will optimize the strategy with the
entry look back from 40 to 240 and the
exit look back also 40 to 240 so in
total we will have
441
strategies so these are the results and
if we sort Buy return to draw down now
we have a better strategy which is the
look back to entry is 90 and the look
back to exit is 100 again we see 9110
9190 and so on so forth now most people
will tell you that you need to fix the
look back for all the markets in order
to make this strategy robust of course I
don't fall in that camp but I will fix
the look back and apply the strategy to
multiple markets so out of 72 markets in
eight categories I picked one market
from each category so you can see these
are the Futures agriculture
cryptocurrency energy Equity Meats
metals and softs so for the long section
I have soybeans Bitcoin Canadian dollar
heating oil Russell lean Hogs copper and
sugar and then for the short side I
changed the Canadian dollar with British
pound and the Russell with the VIX Index
and the cop with the silver so let's run
both of them again the data here since
2006 and this is the result of the
portfolio of course the portfolio is
doing very well and we can see the
breakdown by symbol we have the Canadian
dollar losing and the lean hog also
losing in total this is long and short
and then all the other markets are
making money now I didn't put the
gasoline Market because obviously we
know it's doing very well so I try to
pick something in the middle the
portfolio just so use 80 look back
period for the entry and 40 look back
period for the exit for all instruments
and that's of course really good because
then the strategy is very robust and
it's performing on totally different
markets the only problem is I picked
those markets out of the 72 not because
they represent the sector but because
they are profitable so here is the same
strategy the long side appli to all
markets and as you can see not all of
them are profitable and here's the same
strategy this is the short side on all
markets again as you can see not all of
them are profitable so what I did
actually I picked the best Market from
each sector that performs well with this
strategy which is buying at 80 selling
at 40 and that is the second big problem
with Trend following which is once you
pick let's say a stable area for the
look back that works on all markets now
you need to pick good markets that works
with that right stry and of course you
have many markets so you need to be
lucky to pick the best market now
obviously hedge funds they don't depend
on luck to perform and make money so
what do they do in order to use this
strategy the hedge funds use a concept
called the rainbow so the rainbow
basically it's the look back period
adjusted multiple times so here I have
the EMA which is the exponential moving
average with different look back period
and that's why you get this rainbow so
obviously this will be a long period
probably 200 of course we can change
this if you click on this you can see
the input here starting from two all the
way to 200 so remember what I showed you
the optimization of the gasoline Market
where I picked the 100 day as the best
one in this case I don't need to pick
the 100 day as the best one because I
will trade all the way from 40 to 240 so
I'll trade TR the 40 look back the 50
the 60 all the way to 240 so I have the
full spectrum of all the curves and I
don't need to be lucky to pick the best
curve in the future so using this
methodology you are 100% you will catch
any Trend in the market you are trading
be it short or long and then all the
curves will actually average to the best
Equity curve that you can trade on this
Market okay so I showed you a good
portfolio producing good results and I
showed you the solution so now why I am
saying this will not work for you or for
me the reason is you need good
infrastructure and also you need lots of
capital because imagine if you let's say
want to trade 50 strategies 50 look
backs per market and you need let's say
50 markets in order to have some Trends
so 50 * 50 that's 2500 strategies each
strategy needs Capital to trade so if
you do the math you can easily reach $50
million as a capital requirement to run
a trend following portfolio now there
are multiple variables here that I
didn't show you which is position sizing
picking Market based on momentum and so
on so forth but still at least at least
you will need $5 million to run a proper
Trend following portfolio and for all
those reasons outlined you are much
better running a short-term strategy
portfolio than a long-term which is
Trend following portfolio to learn more
about Trend following watch this video
and I will see you
[Music]
there
