volume is a big part in every Trader
Arsenal I know some traders who only use
volume to take their trades they have
volume profile they only look for a
surge in volume before taking a breakout
and so on and so forth as algo traders
of course we have to test everything we
read we hear we watch and so in this
video I will try to see if volume has
any effect on strategies on your screen
you see the chart of the S P 500 Index
represented by the e-mini Futures the
daily session and at the bottom here we
have the volume indicator so if the
volume is higher than the previous day
then it's painted green and if it's
lower than the previous day then it's
painted red and the cyan indicator here
is the 50-day moving average of this
volume before I do any testing I will
show you how the S P 500 drifts up every
day and it is behind the reason why I
will only go long in the testing the
test I will do is we buy every day at
the open and we sell at the close this
is the result of the test for the past
17 years and we can look at the trades
we have
4259 trades that's all the days
basically available and on average
you're making 19 so this average is
without deducting the slippage and
commission this is buying every day at
the open selling at the close of course
if I reverse this strategy we can see it
is exactly the opposite and now we are
losing 19 on average but the edge is not
only in making money it's also in the
wind percent you can see here the one
percent is 45 and when we are long only
is 55. this is very important point to
take in for every Market you need to
test if the market has a tendency to go
up or to go down or do nothing because
basically then you can match the style
of the strategy to that model of course
I've said this many times on the channel
but this test just proves that the S P
500 tends to drift up all the time and
we know this by because we're making 19
positive on average when we go along
every day also we are 55 percent uh win
rate on the long side and 45 percent win
rate on the short side that means we
have a five percent Edge on the long
side so although I do this all the time
but based on this information we will
only test the long side on the S P 500.
to test the volume as a signal we will
buy whenever the volume is higher than
the previous volume
and we will sell when the volume is
lower than the previous volume so this
is extremely simple strategy we just
want to see if the volume has any effect
on the daily time frame and this is our
strategy applied to the S P 500 when the
volume Red Bar switches to Green we buy
and when the volume green bar switches
to Red we sell so we can see here again
green we buy red we still green by Red
Cell green boy red cell and if we look
at the stats for the strategy we are
making forty eight thousand dollars and
our drawdown is 94
000 we have 1256 trades for the past 17
years making on average 40 dollars again
not including slippage and commission so
this is a definitely losing strategy but
the volume did provide a little bit of
an extra Edge than the normal drift in
the S P 500 remember remember the normal
drift it's about 19 on average per trade
and here we are making almost double the
next test is I will flip this equation
so we will buy when the volume is lower
than the previous volume and we will
exit when the volume is higher than the
previous one and as you can see when we
switch from green volume to Red volume
we buy and when we switch from Red
volume to Green volume we sell so same
here again same here and if we look at
the stats for this strategy we notice
that we are close in the number of
Trades but now our average trade is more
than double and also we enhance our
return to draw down by a lot but of
course this average is also not good
because if you include slippage and
commission then this is not a
satisfactory number the next test is we
will use the volume average
and now you can see the indicator has
changed basically when the volume
average is higher than the previous
average we paint the bar as green and
when it is lower we paint it as red and
so the strategy will be we will go along
again when we switch from red to green
and we will exit when we switch from
green to Red so basically this is the
strategy when the average volume of the
past 50 bars is higher than the average
volume of the past 50 parts then we buy
and we sell when it is lower and we can
see here when we switch from red to
Green we go long and when we switch from
green to Red we exit so even though
these are lower bars we are using the
average and that's why we are still in
this trade same here we switch from red
to Green we go long and we only exit
when this bar switches to red so even
though the volume is dropping here we
are still in the trade
and if we look at the stats now we can
see we are half the number of Trades
but double the amount of the average
trade so we enhance our strategy a lot
by using the volume average and if you
look at the return to draw down now it's
two and this average is usable in the S
P 500 once you include the slippage and
commission win rate here is 64 next test
is we will flip this so basically we
will buy when the average volume of 50
bar is lower than the previous one and
we exit when it is the opposite and we
can see so we go along when we switch
from green to red and we exit when we
switch from red to Green so again here
green to Red we go along we exit red to
green and the stat is not as good when
we flip it the next test we will do is
if the volume is increasing for the last
three bars so if the volume is higher
than the previous one and the previous
one is higher than two bars ago two bars
will go higher than three bars ago so we
have three up volume bars in a row then
we will buy
and when this condition is not true we
will sell now there is another
smarter way to write this which if I can
replace this with count F so basically
count a volume is greater than the
previous volume in the past four bars
if it is three times
so basically I'm looking at four bars
and if in the four bars I have three of
them where the volume is higher than the
previous one then the Y condition is
true so let's see the result of this
test so now we have 431 trades and we
are losing 70 dollars on average so of
course that's not good and like we did
with the rest now we will flip the logic
so we will buy when this condition is
not true and we will sell when the
condition is true now we're making again
same number of Trades 433s but now our
average trade is amazing this is
definitely an abstract that can cover
everything you throw at it in terms of a
slippage commission and outlier days and
if we look at the strategy performance
now we are making
189 thousand dollars with fifty three
thousand dollars drawdown so that's four
to one return to maximum strategy
drawdown and this is the curve we have
the maximum drawdown happened here in
2009 and the next one happened here in
2022 so it turns out that volume really
has some built-in advantage that we can
exploit to build a strategy so in this
case we only use the volume as a signal
of course we have the advantage of
matching the strategy to the indicator
because I only picked long and I know
that all long strategies will work but I
just need to take care of the risk which
is the drawdown now we will go the other
way which is using the volume as a
filter for your strategy so we have the
same conditions but instead of taking
the signal we will just add it to
another entry signal and of course to
make things easy and we can compare it
to other stuff that we did on this
channel I will use the RSI 2 strategy
because you already know how the
strategy performs and we can easily
judge if the filter is good or not so
first we apply the RSI 2 basic strategy
basically we go along when the RSI 2
below 30 we exit when the RSI 2 above
70. there are no filters no slippage and
commission we are making 175 thousand
dollars with fifty thousand dollars
drawdown for the past 17 years three two
one return to draw down ratio
about 400 trades with about 450 on
average per trade our win rate is 75 and
now we have six filters to add to the
strategy so the first one will be if the
volume is higher than the previous
volume the strategy is about the same so
425 362 let's see return to draw down
it's a little bit lower so the filter
doesn't have any advantage here now I
will add the opposite of the filter
which is I will only take the trades if
the volume is lower than the previous
volume and here we lower the trades and
we increase our average trade to 500.
also our win rate went up a little bit
so we look at the performance we're
still making three to one so the
drawdown is a little bit lower but also
the profits is a lot lower so again I
wouldn't use this filter so now I will
add the volume is up three bars in any
four bars so this is 219 and 407 again
we are lowering the three number of
Trades and lowering the average trade
the only thing is more important then is
the drawdown is the same so that is not
usable
and let me do the opposite so that means
we are only going to take the RSI 2
signal when in any four bars we don't
have three bars up and the volume so
that's 320 trades 545 and let's look at
the return to draw down return to draw
down now is five so this is definitely a
good filter so when we take any four
volume bars and we look that there are
no three bars going up then we take the
rsi2 signal so on its own the volume as
a signal was working as a strategy also
when adding that to the RSI 2 it's also
producing good results and finally I
will test the moving average of the
volume so it will take the RSI 2 signal
when the moving average of the volume
the 50 bars is higher than the previous
moving average and here we are making
two to one so that's definitely not good
the trade analysis
is the average is good but you see here
we are making less money and higher
drawdown and now let me flip it so now
we will take the RSI 2 signal when the
volume moving average is lower than the
previous volume and again this is good
so we are making 118 but our drawdown
went to 25 so that's why we have a five
to one return to maximum drawdown so
even though we are making less money but
still this is a good filter we can take
the trade analysis we are making 200
trades and now our win rate is the
highest 77 percent and our average trade
is also higher so two of our volume
logic work great as a signal and as a
filter the volume average worked great
really as a filter for our strategy and
the count number of bars of the volumes
going up is good as a signal and good as
a filter to see the effects of more
indicators watch this video and I will
see you there
[Music]
foreign
foreign
