if you search YouTube channel on RSI
plus Ballinger bands or Ballinger bands
plus RSI you will find many videos
trying to combine these two indicators
to come up with beautiful strategy now
many of you know when it comes to the
rsi2 strategy irain Supreme I did many
versions of this strategy on my channel
in fact if you go to my channel and
search rsi2 you will find many videos on
the subject plus I tested the RSI
strategy on 36 Futures markets and I did
different speeds and I got all the
results in the algo versus crab Series
so when I started to see these videos it
was puzzling to me because the RSI and
the Ballinger bands are basically doing
the same thing here is a chart of the
S&P 500 daily time frames now it doesn't
matter if it's daily or any other time
frame the indicators will work the same
so on the top panel here we have the
Ballinger bands with the upper band and
the the lower band and this is the
moving average in the middle the upper
band and lower band basically it's a
calculation of the standard deviations
of the prices above and below the moving
average now the LSI is trying to do the
same thing in a different calculation
and basically it's an oscillator that
measures the current position of the
close in regards to the previous closes
there is something called the percent B
which is basically it measures where the
close sit in the Ballinger band channel
so as you can see here when the close is
below the Ballinger bands this percent B
goes below zero and when the Clos is
above the Ballinger bands the percent B
goes above one and the reason I put
percent B is just to show you how close
they are because they are trying to do
the same thing so since they are trying
to do the same thing it makes no sense
in combining both of these indicator
together in a St straty because
basically you are at best overfitting
your strategy and at worst your filter
adding more complication without doing
anything else to the strategy and this
reminds me of a story that happened to
me a long long time ago when I was doing
my bachelor's degree in computer
engineering the math Prof in the first
week he spent over 40 minutes in one
lecture describing a theory and then he
told us that this is the wrong Theory
and you should not and when he mentioned
that I raised my hand because I thought
I was smart and I asked the prop saying
why did we spend 45 minutes learning
something that it is wrong and we will
never use it and the reply was that you
need to learn what not to use because it
is as important as learning what to use
and that's why I'm doing this video
because I want to show you what not to
use as much as I want to show you what
to use first of all if this is your
first time on the channel then I should
let you know that I don't use the
default parameters for these indicators
so for example the RSI I use the RSI 2
which is a strategy that was popularized
by Larry Conners so this is the RSI 2
and basically when we are below 25 we
want to buy we when we are above 75 we
want a short and you can see that we
have many signals when we switch to RSI
2 because rsi2
is highspeed indicator while the
Ballinger bands with 20 and two you can
see it's slow and we need to match this
Ballinger bands with the rsi2 so very
simply to match this speed we can change
the Ballinger bands to 10 and one so 10
is the moving average and one is the
standard deviation and now you can see
that we match the rsi2 not completely
but we definitely have the same amount
of signals close so you can see this is
a signal this is not this is a signal
this is not but otherwise we match it
closely and just to show you how this
looks here so we can do this here so
this is 10 and this is one and you can
see now we have more signals because the
close now goes below the lower Channel
and the upper Channel a lot more than
the 20 and2 so this is very important
important because if you leave the
Ballinger bands at 20 and two you don't
get the required results to compare it
with the RSI 2 that's why I wanted to
show you visually how they look like and
now we will test it with numbers and
we'll see what we can achieve in order
to see if the RSI and Ballinger bands
work together we need to test each one
separately so we will test the rsi2
signal with the Ballinger bands as
filter and then we will test the
Ballinger bands as the signal and the
rsi2 as the filter and the reason is to
see if the filter will add any value to
this strategy so this is multichart and
I have the S&P 500 the Futures daily
chart here and the Ballinger band is on
top and this is the RSI 2 and then here
I have the percent B also I have the
width of the channel because we will use
that as a filter now first of all let me
show you the different in the Ballinger
band look back and the standard
deviation you can see we are optimizing
the look back this is the Ballinger
bands look back which is basically the
moving average and The Sweet Spot is
between 10 and 24 so 10 to 24 step two
and then the standard deviation between
75 and 2.25 in step of 0.25 so all in
all we have 56 combinations and this is
our strategy so out of 56 combinations
it sits at number 45 if we sort by net
profit so we have 44 strategies that
perform better if we change the look
back and standard deviation so that
shows the robustness of this strategy
this is going long only when the close
below the lower band of course long only
because this is the S&P 500 which is a
stock index which usually drifts up all
the time and if we look at the top this
is 10 10 14 12 16 12 10 12 14 and 16 so
the top 10 they're all between 10 and 14
with one strategy sitting at 16 and all
the standard deviations are between 75
and 1.25 so you see the sweet spot sit
here and this is the 10 and one that I
told you about it sits here at number
two usually this will perform the best
on all markets now I fixed the exit for
all the test that we are doing in this
video at three bars this is so we can
easily compare different strategies
different filters without affecting the
exit with a stop-loss or with an
indicator this is the performance of the
Ballinger band strategy on the S&P 500
long only using 10 look back and one
standard deviation we are making 100
3,000 with 41,000 draw down so basically
we are making 3
to1 and our number of Trades is 360 and
average trade is 363 so now we will test
with the RSI filter basically we will
test when the RSI below or above a level
and we will see if we can enhance this
strategy so now we will test the RSI
filter and the filter is if if the RSI 2
below a level or if it is above a level
so the filter will be between 1 and two
one when the RSI 2 below a level and two
when the RSI 2 above a level and then
the level will be between five and 95 in
step of five so that means if the RSI 2
below Five Below 10 below 15 so on so
forth and also mean if the RSI 2 below
95 below 80 below 75 and so on so forth
so all in all 38 combinations and here
are the results so just to compare this
is the original strategy when the
percent B below zero that means when the
close below the lower band moving
average is 10 the standard deviation is
one we are exiting after three bars
these are the stats we got so let's see
if we can enhance our strategy by using
the RSI filter so if I sort by net
profit first of all we notice that there
are only three St strategies that beat
our original strategy but we notice that
it is not significant so we reduce our
draw down a little bit and our trades by
29 trades so we barely touch our draw
down the top two strategies I don't
consider them any enhancement because
look at this this is 360 trades and
these are 358 356 that means we took two
trades off four trades off and to me
this is
overfitting that means that you know we
took basically whatever was the worst
trade and we made our strategy a little
better so all in all this filter did not
perform at all the RSI 2 below a level
or the RSI 2 above a level great that
means when we use the Ballinger bands to
enter into a trade the RSI filter
doesn't add anything and if it's adding
anything it is usually overfitting just
like we saw it's basically taking two
trades off to enhance our net profit or
our draw down now we will test the
RSI as an entry signal with the
Ballinger band as a filter now with the
Ballinger bands we will have more than
one filter because we will use if the
close is below a level or above a level
that is the percent B we will also use
the width of the Ballinger bands if it's
expanding or Contracting as a filter for
the entry first this is the basic rsi2
strategy so when the RSI 2 below 25 we
go long and we exit after 3 days there
are no filters nothing so this is the
basic strategy so we can compare it to
the Ballinger bands now the strategy is
making about
159,000 the draw down is about
$440,000 return to draw down ratio is
four and and if we look at the trades
466 trades
61% win rate and
$341 on average per trade so first test
we will do filter three and four which
is measuring when the close below the
lower band all the way to the middle of
the band or when they close above the
upper band all the way to the middle
band and we will do it in step of 0.1 so
zero is the lower band One one is the
upper band so you can see we are going
from below all the way to above in step
of point1 all in all we have 38 filters
here are the results of the optimization
and as you can see on the left this is
the original strategy 158
988 and here at the top these filters
are doing nothing so when the percent b
lower than
one that means any close below the up
upper band so basically that's doing
nothing and as you can see it's doing
nothing because the original strategy
466 trades all these are 466 then we
start to filter some so 65 428 so let's
say this is the first one and what I
mean by this is this is the first filter
that takes off a considerable number of
Trades and we can see the results that
we have higher draw down and less net
profit and this goes the same for all as
you can see we keep making lower net
profit and either higher draw down or
the same but basically we are not
enhancing our return to draw down
remember our the best return to draw
down is four and these are the top four
without removing any trades okay so we
know that this filter doesn't work
meaning measuring where the close in the
Ballinger bands as a filter for our RSI
entry does not add anything so now we
will measure the width of the Ballinger
bands okay so now we are optimizing only
the filters 5 to 8 so that gives us four
filters only and let's optimize and see
the results so remember the filters
where the Ballinger band width greater
than zero that means it's greater than
the average Ballinger bandwidth and
filter number six is smaller than the
average Ballinger band width and then
filter number seven is when the
Ballinger band width expanding for two
bars and filter number eight is when
it's Contracting for two bars and these
are the filter numbers and no filter
enhances our strategy so our strategy is
making 158 and here the best one is
making 91,000 our draw down is
39 and this is the best draw down 23 but
for 23 draw down we are taking off half
the profits and that's why the return to
draw down here is four and none of these
come even close except this one 3.37 but
look at these 1 194 1 12 1 one so even
though our filter reduces our trades a
lot enhances our average trade on some
of them but no filter makes a better
strategy when it comes to return to draw
down ratio so like I expected from the
beginning because Ballinger band and RSI
they are usually trying to do the same
thing when we are using them as a mean
reversion signal to enter into a trade
but as algo Traders we cannot just
depends on the theory we need to test to
find out what is true and what is not so
if you come across any blog or a YouTube
video combining the RSI with Ballinger
bands to get a better result usually
that is overfit and because these two
indicators add nothing there is no value
of adding one indicator to the other to
come up with a better strategy to learn
more about using Ballinger bands in
developing a good strategy watch this
video and I will see you
[Music]
there
