if you are serious about trading then me
reversion strategies should be an
integral part of your portfolio me
reversion strategies come with many
advantages like high win rate and they
work beautifully on stocks and stock
indexes now if you search my channel for
me reversion you will find many videos
discussing this subject also there are
many free strategies included now
because I am a Futures Trader I usually
feature some Futures Contract in my
strategy but I know a lot of you trade
stocks so in this video we will build a
miror version strategy that works on
stocks so here is the simplest mirror
version strategy you can apply it to an
index now I featured many many versions
of this strategy on the channel the
simplest form is this when the RSI 2
below 25 we buy and when the RSI 2 above
75 we exit there is no other condition
in this strategy now stop stop loss no
profit Target no filters nothing this is
the strategy applied to the S&P 500
futures buying a single contract at a
time since
2007 and this is the result it's making
$149,000 until October 2023 on average
we are making
$473 after slippage and commission which
is set here so if you go to Money
Management we're using one and if we go
to slippage and commission I'm using $15
per trade usually in all my videos I
don't use slippage and Commission
because as an experienced Trader I
already know what each instrument
requires as an average trade to cover
three times the slippage in commission
so for the S&P 500 futures usually I
look for $100 at least as an average
trade because slippage and commission is
about
$30 and we need about three times that
so $100 is good enough but in this case
I put the slippage and commission there
so it's covered and the strategy of
course is wonderful but it comes with a
caveat which is the big draw down so if
we look at the open Draw down here you
see it's
86% and of course no samean Trader will
trade with this draw down of course draw
down is highly Dependable on your
starting Equity now the platform I'm
using comes with the default starting
Equity of $10,000 $10,000 doesn't even
start to cover a single contract so in
Futures there is something called the
margin requirement to trade a single
contract and for the es it is
12,320 you are required to have that
amount in your account to trade a single
contract now of course even $113,000 is
not enough so let's do double that so
let's start our Equity with
$26,000 now you will see that this will
not affect our total profit number of
Trades it will not affect anything other
than the draw down because we are
trading a fixed one contract so if I run
the full back test now you can see
everything stays the same except the
draw down has changed so now our open
Draw down is
47% by the way I'm using the latest
version of strategy Quant X this is
version
137 with the stock picker engine if you
are new to this platform you can
download it for free and play with the
full features for 2 weeks and if you
decide to buy it use my coupon stases to
get 23% off this is the equity and we
see the huge draw down this is in March
2020 now most me reversion strategies
have one problem so if we go back here
you see I'm waiting for the RSI 2 to
reach above 75 to exit and of course
that could take a long time and that's
why we have this huge draw down so here
is an example where this might go wrong
you can see for example this is sunlife
and this is the 25 level is the red line
so in our example we are trading below
25 so when the RSI 2 goes below 25 we
are entering long and then we are
exiting when it's reaching above 75 and
so here we barely touch it but look at
this then we go down here and we stay
down for a long long time until we exit
and same thing here we are below 25 and
we are still down so we can mitigate
those conditions by a directional filter
for example the most popular is the 200
day moving average we can also add a
stop loss and we can also add a maximum
bars since entry so for example example
here we enter here and we count if we
are not above 75 and 10 bars for example
we can exit the trade and when we do
that the strategy becomes more realistic
so coming back here if I add the
directional filter which is close above
the 200 day moving average and I run the
back test now it's already much better
because we get rid of uh so you can see
here this is March 20 we are below 200
end of 2018 and and most of 2021 and of
course in the
subprime uh crash which is 2007 2008 so
that's very good and I can also add the
maximum bars so if you see the overview
we can see on average we are about six
bars in a trade and the average number
of bars in losses are about 10 so if we
limit our bar since entry between these
values we should cover our basis so this
is the long entry and exit after bars
let's start with six and see how that
affects our numbers so that is huge and
let's do
12 12 seems to be uh doing well so in
this case I don't affect my numbers as
much and I have a limit to how long I am
in a trade so this is now much more
practical strategy where I am exiting
after 12 bars if nothing happens and of
course I'm only entering if we are above
the 200 day moving average so far all
what I showed you is the RSI 2 m version
strategy on the S&P 500 Index using the
Futures Contract which represent the S&P
500 Index in total now to apply the same
strategy to stocks and let's say we're
going to apply to the S&P 500 stocks
that means we have 500 stocks to choose
from at any point in time there could be
500 400 300 whatever number of stocks
that matches our criteria which is the
RSI 2 below 25 the close is above the
200 day moving average so at that point
we need something else to trade a
manageable number of stocks so say I
only have Capital to trade three or 10
or 20 stocks how would I pick now those
20 stocks out of the 500 or any number
of stock that matches our criteria in
that case we need something to sort the
available stocks for us to trade this is
the stock screener in trading View and
in our example let's say I'm looking at
all these stocks this is the stocks in
the US that are on the nysse exchange we
have about 3,000 stocks so if I apply
the moving average where the price is
greater than the 200 day moving average
you see now we have
623 stocks that matches this criteria
and if I put the
rsi2 below 20 now we are down to 200
stocks so we went from 3,000 stocks to
200 stocks that we can trade but even
200 is too many so now I can sort by
this so if I sort so by sorting now I
have the first stock which is the lowest
in terms of RSI and the highest will be
the highest in RSI but even the highest
of course matches our criteria which is
below 20 so in this case I have gen
worth Financial uh which is the highest
RSI and I can do the same thing in
strategy Quant X so now in strategy
Quant x i Am using the S&P 500 data
since January 2000 all the way to
October and I'm using $10,000 to start
and also I am using a kind of high
considered today is high so I'm using
one cent per share minimum $5 and
maximum $10 in fact today you can trade
for free all stocks depending on your
broker but this is a very uh
conservative
um estimates for commissions now this is
a directional long-term filter I will
add another shortterm directional filter
so I will use adx as rising so adx 12
bars this is a shortterm directional
filter but the reason I add this is
because we are going to trade stocks I
need something else for the stocks
because remember this is an index and
for stocks the individuality of each
stock will be huge so we we need
something else to confirm the direction
so now we are using the stock picker
engine and this is our strategy RSI
below 25 we enter long close above the
200 day moving average and the adx is
rising so these are the entries and the
exit I changed it a little bit so now we
are exiting with the rsi2 above 65
instead of 75 so that's
faster also if the close greater than
the previous close close two bars in a
row also if the close suddenly gaps up
4% we are exiting and instead of bar
since entry I have a 25% stop loss now
if we go back to our settings we can see
that I'm trading of course the stocks
and the money management is $10,000 to
start in but something important here is
the ranking so remember when we ranked
on the RS I I'm using here momentum rank
now I'll show different ranking in a
second so st's momentum rank is ranking
all the stocks that matches this
criteria out of the 500 stocks in the
S&P 500 Index so going back to this
ranking that means on this day I will
trade the lowest RSI for
example I will trade the top five so 1 2
3 4 five so only these five stocks will
be traded on this day and I do this
every day so that's what five maximum
positions mean now I'm not trading the
short side so there's nothing there and
now if I trade this so run full back
test so these are my result since 2000
we are compounding at
13.4 we have 3.38 return to draw down
Ratio or Draw down at
26% and if we look at our Equity chart
this is what it looks like we made a
peak in 2021 and we are not there yet
and our over overview we are making
$26 after slippage and commission per
trade so this is the reason for the low
average trade because our starting
Equity is
$110,000 we trade five positions so each
position gets $2,000 and then
$2,000 get a maximum number of shares
per that stock and so you can see our
trades are low and that's why we have an
average a low average but once we get to
let's say the 2023 we can see how the
trades are all big so 300 700 500,000
500 because now we have more Capital to
trade so we can buy more shares and this
is the caveat that you need to learn
when trading stocks because in Futures
we have a fixed one contract and the one
contract will always make $50 per point
in the S&P 500 so it doesn't matter when
you trade in in the year 2000 or today
it's $50 per Point although the margin
rate will change but the profit and loss
will not change but in stocks the
starting Equity will have a huge effect
on your Equity profit and loss so for
example the same
strategy if I
start with instead of $10,000 I will
start with a
$100,000 so I just added a zero so you
probably think that instead of making
170,000 we will make 1.7 million so
let's run the test and see so instead of
1.7 million we are making 8.7 million so
that's a huge difference because we are
trading stocks and also another thing
you will see that if I sort by size so
you can see now we're having more than
100,000 shares to trade now at this
point you might be a small fund that
trading this size although many stocks
today you can trade this size but if
this let's say happened in
201 you probably could not trade that
size so the way to mitigate this is you
either limit the maximum number of
shares you trade so for example you can
say maximum number of shares is 5,000 a
but way is to limit it per the volume of
the stock so you can do this manually
for example this is viat TR stock and we
can see the average volume is about 8.8
million and a good R of thumb is you can
trade 0.5% of every million of the
average so in this case we have let's
say 9 million that means 5,000 shares
per million so about 45,000 shares for
this stock now unfortunately in sqx in
the current money management rules we
cannot do any of these things also I
want to bring to your attention that the
25% stop loss is not 25% of your Equity
since we are trading five positions so
this will be divided by five so this
will have a 5% on your Equity so if a
stoploss hit that means you just lost 5%
of your total Equity now I just Pro to
you that the same strategy will work on
Stocks by just using some method of
ranking on your stocks to trade a
manageable number let's say five to 10
uh stocks but using the same principle
which is Mir version which of course is
a straightforward conclusion because we
know M version strategies work on the
index then theoretically it should work
on all the stocks that are part of this
index now I'll go a step further which
is I want to cement the me reversion
Concept in your head so I did the RSI
it's the same strategy now I'm only
going to change how I am measuring this
uh miror version concept so here for
example I have pullback so same
everything it's all the same rules we
are using the same index we are using
the same commission and we are using the
same money management rules
everything is fixed except I'm adding
the condition instead of RSI I'm using a
pullback so in this case if the close
lower than the previous close three
times in a row we will enter so that's
just another measure of mere version so
let's run the full back test
now and we can see that we are making
12.3% compan annual growth rate with
about 40% draw down
and now I will go with this this is the
Ballinger band so if the close is below
the Ballinger bands now I'm using a
shortterm Ballinger bands to match the
shortterm of the RSI or three lower Clos
in a row so I'm using the 5 day moving
average and 0.5 standard deviation for
the channels so if I run
this again we see a very close
performance so we're making
14.6% compound annual growth rate with
42% draw down but of course we're making
more money and finally I will use
stochastic so again I'm using a shorter
version to match the RSI 2 so this is
stochastic 3 and three lower than 25
everything else is the same and if we
run the full back test and this is the
best version we are making compound
annual growth rate 18
% with a 24% draw down so this is the
best me reversion strategy out of these
four remember these are all trading the
same universe same stocks same
commission same conditions so the
stochastic doesn't mean it's better it's
just because at the end of last let's
say 5 years we have more Equity to trade
so that's why we are making more money
so keep that in mind the takeaway is
mirr version works regardless on how you
measure it what filters you add and what
stocks you trade if you just implemented
the right way and I just showed you four
ways to measure the mirror version
without changing the filters the
commissions the number of stocks to
trade or the starting equity and I just
showed you that all of them work now
I'll just add the icing on the cake now
which is ranking
affects your strategy a lot so if you
remember this screen where we are
ranking bar RSI you can Rank by anything
so going back to our original strategy
the RSI 2 on the S&P 500 stocks and this
is using momentum rank so if I just
change the way we rank the top five
stocks so let's use the RSI and remember
now we are having 13 compound annual
growth rate with 20 the 6% draw
down so just by changing the ranking you
can see now we are at
16% compound annual growth rate and our
draw down expanded to 36 and if I change
the ranking to rate of
change you can see now I am at 26
compound annual growth rate with 32%
draw down just the ranking now almost
double our compound annual growth rate
yes we increased our draw down but we
didn't add leverage we're just changing
the ranking so you see the ranking in
this type of strategy have huge huge
effect to learn more about miror version
strategies watch this video and I will
see you
[Music]
there
[Music]
