if your trading screen looks something
like this then you need to stop trading
right now more indicators will not yield
to a better strategy in fact if anything
less is more in this video I will show
you an extremely simple pattern that you
can trade without any indicators even
without looking at your screen and it
will yield very good results so how do
you trade without indicators and without
even looking at your chart the pattern
that I will teach you today uses only 2
days or 3 days close price now this
pattern is so powerful not because of
data mining or because I cheated somehow
it is because I know the S&P 500 is a Me
reverting instrument so in fact any
pattern that uses some kind of pullback
it will do well on the S&P 500 it will
actually do well on any mirror version
instrument these are instruments that do
very well with mirr version strategies
and you can test that now you can watch
my older video where where I tested the
S&P 500 mirror reversion property the
pattern is extremely simple to build in
any trading platform I'm using strategy
Quant X here because of other advantages
that we will use later in the video so
for starters let's build this strategy
I'm using the algo wizard so I will just
use lower than for X number of bars so
I'll choose that and I will choose three
bars no shift that means we are
executing
today and the comparison is when the
close of today is lower than the close
of yesterday so I'll check this pattern
the close of today lower than the close
of yesterday is true for three bars that
means I am looking for three consecutive
lower closes so this is a very nice
trick and it is available in many
trading platforms it's like count if
where you are usually in one sentence
you are telling the computer that look
for three close down in a row this is
not the close below the open this is the
close lower than yesterday close and
yesterday close lower than the day
before and the one before before that so
it's a pattern it's a 3-day low close
pattern this pattern of course could be
extended 1 2 3 5 seven bars it doesn't
matter and to exit I will use the
opposite pattern so in my long exit
signal again look for comparison
and greater for X number of bars and in
this case three bars
also and it will be the close of
today higher than the close of yesterday
so the close of today higher than the
close of yesterday three times in a row
and I will use like I mentioned I will
use the S&P 500 because it tends to do
extremely well with me reversion
strategies we are using one contract per
trade and if we run the full back test
as expected the strategy does very well
2009 1011 we are in a draw down also
2020 this is co and this happens to All
Me reversion strategies in fact if I
extend this I can make this clearer to
you so let's go for 7 days
pullback and we will exit after seven
closes so we will go long when we have
seven lower close in a row and we will
exit when we have seven higher close in
a row so we should expect definitely
lower number of Trades and let's
test so we have only three trades and we
are profitable but here I will show you
the problem so these are the trades on
the chart and if we look at the first
trade this is easy I mean we are getting
out I don't know within 20 30 bars but
let's look at the next trade look at the
this look how long it took to exit so we
are in a big draw down but no seven
higher closes in a row happen let's look
at the next trade this even worse look
at how how long is this so let's extend
so this trade took almost a year to find
out seven higher close and look at this
draw down this is a typical drawback for
any mere reversion strategy and you need
to mitigate that now beginner Traders
usually will jump to a stop
that is the wrong way to deal with any
strategy stoploss usually hurt any
strategy especially mere version
strategy so the best way to deal with
this is to have a fixed number of bars
to exit the trade in case whatever your
pattern your indicator whatever your
condition is doesn't happen so in this
case since we are looking for 7 days
maybe if we limit 15 days then we exit
now what if we want to test a different
number so for example one bar or two bar
three four and what if you want to test
a different exit so we can randomize
that very easy in strategy Quant X we
just need to go to settings switch the
strategy to a template and then we come
here and we say instead of three
generate randomly 1 25 step
one and then we do the same for the exit
generate randomly one to five step one
now one to five step one that means we
have five steps here and five steps here
so 5 * 5 that should give us 25 strategy
so if I save this strategy and go to
Builder I can load it in the strategy
from template and it doesn't matter what
you pick because the strategy template
is already set there is only an entry
with a different number of clothes lower
than the previous close and there is an
exit which is the close higher than the
previous close number of bars one to
five so that's it we should get 25
strategies now if you filter then of
course this will be reduced but if you
remove the filters it should be maximum
25 strategies and it should be very easy
and there it is 25 strategies now you
can sort by any metric you like and
strategy Quant X have hundreds of them
and you can put your combine your own so
let's start by return to draw down and
here I have 12.7 return to draw that's
very good and here it is 30 trades with
an average about $3,000 per trade and if
we go down I can pick something like
this this is 472 trades with an average
of $200 per trade now remember I didn't
include the commission and slippage so
if we reduce $30 from this it will be 17
seven so that's still an amazing uh
strategy so we can click on this and we
can check the source code go to pseudo
code and let's check so this is the
close lower than the previous close for
two bars and exit when the close is
higher than the previous close for one
bar so that's why we have too many
trades of course here uh we have
thousand trades that must be one in one
and it is you can see here close is
lower than the previous close for one
bar and we exit when the close is higher
than the previous close for one Buck the
average here it drops to 126 so
obviously I'm going to go something like
this this looks like in between so let's
look at this strategy it's not winning
all years and we can see the draw down
here of course we can see this in the
equity chart this is the draw down we
have another one here but look at this
these numbers are really really good
it's about 70% win rate $200 average
trade exposure is about 20% so this
strategy already beats many many other
strategies and we didn't use anything
and this is the power of trading without
indicators trading this pattern doesn't
get any simpler than this we didn't look
at any chart we have no indicators we
are just looking at the close and not on
100 closes we are looking on a 3-day
pattern we want two close down in a row
one close up that's it that's our entry
and exit we didn't filter with ATR with
moving averages with Ballinger BS
nothing but that doesn't mean you cannot
use that in fact the next step is to
enhance this strategy with a filter like
volatility or Direction and when you are
using strategy quantex that's extremely
extremely simple yet so powerful let me
show you so going back to algo wizard we
are still in this template and we just
add another condition we go to random
condition this random condition now will
be picked up by the Builder and now I
loaded my strategy with the template but
now remember this condition will be
picked up by the Builder and filled with
these building blocks so we have in
strategy Contex we have many blocks so
these are signals predefined conditions
indicators and stop El liit entry blocks
and you can pick randomly or you can
pick your own also you can custom build
your own blocks so I'm not going to go
over how you build your custom Block in
this video and now because we have these
building blocks now we are not going to
build 25 strategies because each
strategy now can be randomized with
these filters so now we need to use some
kind of ranking so let me use a simple
one net profit and number of Trades so
minimum number of Trades is 50 minimum
net profit is 5,000 of course here you
can add your own and there are many
metrics you can use and you can use in
Sample out of sample
but just to simplify let's do this and
let's see what we get so I'm looking for
a th000 strategy I already have 911
these 911 passed my criteria so now
again let me sort by return to draw down
and look at this strategy 55 so not bad
the close is lower than the previous
close for three bars in a row and the
close is higher than the previous close
for four bars in a row that's my entry
that's my exit but now I have a filter
for example this one the momentum is
falling for four bars now let me look at
another one this is 249 trades obviously
this is statistically better the average
trade is 494 again very very good let's
click on this one and this one the close
is lower than the previous close for one
bar and the exit the close is higher
than the previous close for one bar so
again it's one bar and one bar but
remember without the filters we had
about 1,000 trades and now we have about
half of that and that is because this
filter so what is the filter the open
the weekly open is falling for three
bars and that is the part of sqx which
is you can have thousands of building
blocks thousands of variation and just
use them as a filter for our simple
entry and exit and of course here I have
911 now you can change this completely I
can say well now I don't want I only
want 100 trades and instead of net
profit I will put a profit factor of 1.4
let's clear all this and let's start the
process
again and theoretically now I should
have a higher equality strategy so
return to draw down so now every
strategy has more than 100 trades and
all of them have a profit Factor above
1.4
and let me look at this one this is
228 trades and let's see so again the
close lower than the previous close two
bars we enter and close higher than the
previous close two bars we exit but now
our filter is a true range that's a
volatility filter so true range is lower
than the previous true range that means
the volatility is going down so you see
how strategy quantex is an amazing tool
when you know what you are doing we just
pick a simple pattern but because we
have the Automation and the building
blocks in strategy context that makes
finding a robust strategy really really
easy of course all that started with the
knowledge that the S&P 500 is good with
long miror reversion strategy because if
you try this pattern on any Market it
will not work especially you guys in
Forex Trading Forex is very very very
dull all the instruments have no
characteristics they are just basically
noise until the government changes the
interest rate and then the whatever
currency starts moving in a direction
related to that while Futures market
usually perform really well with
multiple multiple pattern to learn more
watch this video and I will see you
[Music]
there
[Music]
