if you are stuck building Mir reversion
strategies the old way or out of ideas
on how to build Mir reversion strategies
then you are in luck because in this
video I will show you a stepbystep new
method to build miror rsion strategies
using a unique indicator most Traders
know that linear regression is used for
Trend following or at least for Trend
filter because linear regression plots a
line a directional line over the past
look back period and usually the
calculation shows if the line fits all
the bars pointing up or pointing down or
sideways and from that line you can
Define that we are in an uptrend
downtrend or sideways so for example
here I have the S&P 500 futures and this
is the miror version for a look back
period of 100 bars so the line in the
middle is the linear regression and then
we have a two channels which are 1.5
standard deviation from this line so for
example if I'm looking at a 100 day
linear regression then we are in an
uptrend because we see the line going up
now we can change this and let's say if
I put it at 30 so now for the past 30
bars we are considered in a downtrend
because the linear regression is
pointing down now instead of taking the
line Direction for the linear aggression
we can take only one value at a time
which is the last bar and add to it the
standard deviation of the same linear
regression line so that will give us
something like the Ballinger bands but
it's not and this is how the indicator
looks like so the blue bar in the middle
that's the linear regression value at
each bar and then the bands the red and
the green this is the lower band the
upper band they are one and a half
standard deviation of this value and
like I mentioned it is like a Ballinger
band but it is not so this is how the
Ballinger band looked like so the dark
colors are the Ballinger bands and we
can see they might expand and Shrink at
the same time but they have totally
different response because they are
using a different measure for the
standard deviation also this is not like
the culer channel so these two lines now
are the cner channel and again they look
different from the Ballinger bands and
they look different from the linear
regression bands and we can see a big
discrepancy for example at this part so
this is the lower channel of Ballinger
bands this is the lower channel of
Kelner Channel and this is the lower
channel of the linear regression band
and then right on top of it we see the
Kelner Channel and Ballinger bands and
then the linear regression bands so
what's the point of just another
indicator with bands it is actually you
want to create a unique Equity curve
with me reversions we know that the S&P
500 works really well with me reversion
strategy but it doesn't make sense to
build the same strategy again and again
by producing the same Equity curve what
you are looking for is a different
Equity curve than whatever strategy
already built so for example if use the
RSI oscillator or the Ballinger band
then you want to build something else
that produce a different Equity curve so
it will have a different draw down a
different Peak during the back test now
the same as Ballinger bands percent B
indicator we can use that with the
linear regression bands so basically we
measure where the close sits in relation
to the band and this is what I mean by
the percent B in relation to the linear
regression band so the yellow line now
represent the close in relation to the
band so you see here it's below here
it's in the middle and here it's above
the advantage when we use this as an
indicator now we can Define exactly
where this is sitting like if I click
here you can see this percent B has a
value that is different than below or
above so like like I mentioned if you
divide this close by the bands you can
exactly know where the close sits so
zero means it's at the lower band and
one means it's at the upper band now the
close can go below which will be minus
or above which will be above one so
let's optimize our strategy the length
of the linear regression is 20 now you
can optimize this also you can go to 30
100 whatever you like I'm going to fix
it at 20
let's optimize the standard deviation so
we will go from 0.5 to 2 instead of 0.25
and then the by level so this is where
the close sits in relation to the bands
we will go from minus 1.6 that means the
close happen somewhere around here all
the way to 04 so this is like almost in
the middle of the Bands the middle of
the Bands is 0.5 we will do that in step
of point2 and and then the sell level
once we are in a trade remember this is
me reversion so we should exit when the
price pull up and we will start from 6
so this is just above the middle of the
band all the way to 1.8 so somewhere
around here above the upper band again
in step of point2 so all in all we have
539 combinations and sorting the results
by return to draw down ratio we get this
table so at the top here sitting at 4.68
return to draw down we have the standard
deviation at 0.5 and then the buy level
Min
-1 and then the cell level 1.2 so minus
one means we are not just below this but
further away remember this is zero and
this is one so minus one should be
really far and then we are exiting just
above the channel which is 1.2 now this
is prod producing 129 trades with an
average trade of $820 this is really
good for the S&P 500 because most M
version strategy on the S&P 500 is
around $400 but remember this is a uh
low number of Trades so if we look at
this one this is
242 and
725 so again this is really really good
strategy and this one is at 0 five
standard deviation again but this time
we are buying at 04 exiting at 1.2 that
means we are entering the trade once the
close just below the middle of the
channel so it's not even below the lower
Channel and we will exit when it is
above at 1.2 now since this is more
trades I prefer to take this one because
I can always add a filter to enhance my
strategy now just to have a look let's
see how many trades we have in total so
this is also Al really good
384 also very good average remember you
can always add a filter here and if we
look at net profit we have here this is
210 and at 80% win rate the problem is
the low number of Trades which is 49 so
if we filter 100 trades minimum and now
sorting we get the top is at 180%
profitable 81 that is amazing 109 trade,
1600 100 on average so no need to filter
here you can just use this one and here
is a 3D view of the results so the water
level here is
$100,000 and here we have the buy level
from -16 to4 and the sell level from 6
to
1.8 and we are looking at the 0.5
standard deviation so obviously we have
really great stable area let's look at
the other ones so 75 also looks good
like this area is really good so
definitely lower standard deviation is
better so 1.75 and .5 they're all good
so let's look at the results of the top
net profit at 180 this is the top net
profit of over 100 Trade so we are uh
disregarding the strategies with less
than 100 trades so this is the strategy
applied which is 75 standard deviation
and zero to get in and 1.4 to get out so
this is so zero basically just any close
below the lower band and
1.4 it's you can see here we got out
here where we are above the upper
Channel by 04 and same thing here now we
notice we are a spending a long time in
this so this will uh face big draw Downs
so we can introduce exit after number of
bars and here are the results sorted by
return to draw down by intr reducing an
optimization for the number of bars so
again this is the standard deviation the
buy level sell level and here we can see
the number of bars so exiting like
putting a limit of 25 bars enhance the
strategy a lot so this is a trade
analysis 109 trade 70% win rate a huge
uh average trade because we have lower
number of Trades and you can of course
pick and choose whatever suit your
portfolio in terms of number of trades
in lower average or lower trades in
higher average trade this is the equity
curve it's really good it's going up all
the time also still up this year now the
idea here is not which one is the best
is it RSI is it macd is it Ballinger
bands the idea here is to pick an equity
curve that is different than what you
have before so you mix many strategies
in a portfolio to produce a better
Equity care if you like this video then
you will love the next one
[Music]
