imagine a strategy that not only track
the market but anticipate its next move
using only a 3-day pattern the strategy
was developed by Larry Connor and it's
called 3-day high low pattern Larry
Connor used that strategy on multiple
ETFs but as a future Trader of course I
will test it on two Futures Market one
is going long and one is going short and
if you are new in trading there is a
very important concept to follow which
is to match the strategy style to the
instrument characteristics so for
example this strategy is a Mir reversion
strategy so that means we need to couple
the strategy with an instrument that
works well with me reversion and if you
want to go along then we have to add
that condition also that this instrument
has to be good in miror version and long
and if you want to go short then we want
to get an instrument that works well
with miror version and short so first
let me give you the rules of the
strategy it's extremely simple we are
looking for lower highs and lower lows
three bars in a row so the strategy
looks something like this we have three
lower highs and lower lows and if these
two conditions are true then we will buy
on the close and we will exit when the
close is higher than the previous high
so this close has to be higher than this
High then we exit and that's it strategy
is extremely extremely simple now Larry
Conners use two moving averages the 200
day as a filter to go along and the 5day
moving average as a filter to exit now
since I have many many filters I removed
both of these filters so I replace the
exit with the close higher than the
previous high and once this strategy is
good and we like it then we will test it
with multiple filters so here I have the
chart of the S&P 500 E mini Futures and
I'm using this chart of course because
the strategy is me reversion and we will
use it to go long on this instrument
because that instrument works very well
with me reversion and log so here is the
strategy applied and you can see this is
a trade so lower highs lower lows so
three in a row that means we enter on
the close and when we have the close
higher than the previous High We exit
this is another trade so we have three
lower highs three lower lows we enter at
the close and we exit when the close is
higher than the previous high so this
happens here this is a losing trade
there's another one another one so on so
forth and the result of this strategy is
it's making
$124,000 the data here since 2006 with 6
3 return to draw down ratio that's
really really good on the S&P 500 total
trade analysis we have 143 trades about
80% win rate
$870 on average this is really good
considering this strategy was published
at least 10 years ago to my knowledge
and looking at the annual period
analysis since 2006 we have only three
losing years 23 18 and 15 great results
we are already on a very good start now
this happens because we match the
strategy style to the instrument
characteristic which is a big concept
that I drill in every video now before
we start adding filters to the strategy
Let's test other combinations of the
three lower lows and three lower highs
so I'm going to test the look back
period and the true number of bars so
what I'm looking for here is how many
bars I'm going to check the low lower
than the previous low and the high lower
than the previous high and in this
period how many I want them true so for
example five and five means that I'm
looking for the past five bars where all
bars have lower lows and lower highs and
so on so forth so to Total 25
combinations very easy and here are the
result now some of them are zero because
they don't make sense so for example
this is the look back period of one but
we are looking for three lower lows and
lower highs which of course doesn't
exist so 2 3 four five so when this uh
variable is greater than this then we
will get zero in any case I don't care
I'm just going to sort by return to draw
down and we have a total of 15
strategies and this is the original
strategy three and three and three and
three is on the top that means 3 and
three is already the best strategy now I
didn't pick 3 and three remember this is
lar Conor strategy and it's published
more than 10 years so this is all what
we have is is out of sample so this is
not an
optimized uh values there are other
things that we need to look at so the
strategy
produced 143 trades so if I want to
introduce filters of course I'm going to
decrease the number of Trades so maybe
it's better that we pick more trade so
that when we add a filter we still going
to have a good number of Trades and also
we can notice that we can make a lot
more money by choosing a different one
so this one is making
210 and it's still very good return to
draw down ratio this one is making
230 and it's still good return to draw
down ratio so this one have a total of
900 trades which is just too much I
think and and the reason is because we
are looking at the previous four bars
and we are looking only for one lower
low and one lower high so that's why we
have too many trades so maybe we can
pick something in the middle which is
for example this one so two and one so
in the previous two bars if we have one
lower high one lower low then we will go
long so still we're making more money
but we definitely have a lot more trades
so when I add filters it will be okay so
let's pick this one okay so the strategy
is applied and as you can see we have
many trade and if we check the result
682 trades 257 average trade 71% win
rate and we are making 175,000 with 4.58
return to draw down now we can add our
filters and here are the results of my
market regime filter so these filters
are only Direction and volatility and
different combinations of them and as
usual you will see at the top volatility
so up to 35 these are all volatility
filters but now look at the return to
draw down ratio so 10 7 7 so that's
really really good and remember when I
told you we start with higher number of
Trades so look at this we filtered
almost 250 trades doubled our average
trade from the uh previous uh strategy
we picked and reduce our draw down so we
achieved our goal of making more money
with less draw down and more trades so
as you can see the methodology really
robust it works very well and that's
what I teach in my algo trading Master
Class to match the strategy style to the
instrument characteristics and then you
add your filters you check for
robustness and voila you got a great
strategy and now to prove this on the
other side we are going to use the same
pattern but on the short side meaning we
are looking for three higher highs three
higher lows and then we're going to
short on the third day which is on the
close and then we will exit when the bar
moves down meaning when the close lower
than the previous low now because we are
using miror version short side we are
going to match it with natural gas
because natural gas works really well
with mirror version on the short side so
here we have the natural gas Futures and
here's the strategy applied we are
making
$85,000 3.1 return to draw down ratio
and 172 trades at about $500 on average
is really really good and about 70% win
rate same thing we are going to test the
look back period and the number of true
bars and again we have 15 strategies
only because like I mentioned this value
has to be lower than this value and
again for the short side three and three
is the best so 3.1 and everything else
is less but again if we want to follow
the same procedure we need to look for
something that produce higher trades and
then we can introduce filters so any one
of these will work these are all 700 600
500 and 600 trades these are all will
work I'm going to pick this one which is
five and two so we are looking in the
past five bars if two of them have
higher lows and higher highs and here
are the results for my market regime
filters and this time we don't have
volatility on the top so all these 4S
and 121 so 121 is Direction and
volatility but these first three on the
top they are all long-term Direction and
the difference is huge again we are
removing almost 2 50 trades we increase
our win rate and of course we are making
more money and of course the next step
is combining these strategies together
in a portfolio this is short the other
one is long they will Co complement each
other most likely and you get a really
good portfolio and that's really the
trick of algo trading it's building
robust strategies by following the
foundations uh that I teach and then
combining them into a portfolio that has
less correlated strategies so you get
better return to draw down ratio and you
trade your portfolio for profitability
to learn more about Market regime watch
this video and I will see you there
[Music]
