many people ask me directly in stasis
Community or commenting on videos on
stadis channel telling me why you keep
saying the S&P 500 is a me reverting
index and how would you know this will
keep going this is an extremely
important subject and in fact I have a
full dedicated lesson in my Alo trading
master class only about this subject
which is developing a strategy that
matches the style of the instrument
really this is one of the biggest reason
that switched me from losing Trader to
profitable Trader which is developing
long separately than short and
developing with a strategy style that
matches the instrument instead of just
blindly trying any strategy on any
instrument first of all the S&P 500 is
the most liquid most popular index in
the world it consist of 500 companies in
the US and they are ranked by weight so
it's a system mirror version strategies
are a style of Strate strategy that
suggest the price once it's diverg from
the mean it will come back to it so when
the price is let's say at uh 200 day
moving average and it goes too far above
200 day moving average we expect it to
go back to the moving average now this
works on every way you measure the mean
this could be standard deviation could
be Kelner channels it could be an
oscillator or even it could be a simple
price pullback okay I have hundreds of
strategies on the channel they're all
meting mostly they are traded on the S&P
500 so we all know this I am very pro
version strategies and I love the S&P
500 and you can develop hundreds of
strategies even though they're all miror
version they will be different but today
we are just understanding why this thing
work on this instrument so in order to
get enough data I loaded here the SPX
the SPX is the S&P 500 cash index the
reason is because we can go back to 1960
because the Spy ETF goes back to about
1993 so there is limited amount of data
and here we can go back further and you
can see here I have data since
1960 and here we have only the close
until later on where we have the full
patterns and the strategy is applied
which is the RSI 2 below 25 we buy then
we exit the next day with the RSI 2
below 25 we will get many signals so
that's why we can statistically find out
if what we are saying is true or not now
because this is the SPX Index this is
like stocks so the price will be in
dollars and cents and therefore if you
try to test this you will find a problem
so here for example I'm trading 100
shares in every trade so if you pull the
strategy the strategy is profitable but
that doesn't mean anything let's look at
the list of Trades see this is the first
trade 1962 the price was 70 and 100
shares in and out we lost $98 we made $3
made 41 lost 75 you can see everything
is lower than 100 but then if I forward
all the way to this date and I'm still
trading 100 shares but now the profit
and loss are in thousands of dollars so
that's creates a problem because most
likely the strategy is profit just
because the last 5 years maybe it made a
lot of money and it was losing money all
previous years in order to find the real
Edge in the mirror version system on
this instrument we need to find the
percent return because the percent
return we can always compare it on the
same instrument and on other instruments
so I imported the results here which are
the return in percentage so these are
the same trades the RSI 2 below 25 five
we buy we exit next day so we are
holding one bar and this is the percent
return since 1960 now if we do a pivot
table on this we can find all the
results cated by year so this is the S&P
500 me reversion this is the RSI 2 below
25 we buy we exit next day this is a 1
day percent return this is the total
accumulated every year there is a clear
pattern that's happening here this is
long only and we can see since 1960 all
the way to
1983 all the years using this strategy
are losing years except 1963 and even
then the profit is very small but we can
see the losses are big what does this
say this say that every time the S&P 500
RSI 2 goes below 25 if we buy we lose
but think about this if we sell short
then we we make money what does that say
that says the S&P 500 since
1960 up to
1983 it was a breakout
instrument that means when the LSI two
pulls below 25 if we take the breakout
which is the sell short the next day we
make money then something happened
between 83 and
1994 the behavior started to change so
up down up down up down up down and then
from 95 and onward it was obviously a
meere reverting instrument so since
1995 we had three down years using the
RSI one day holding so that's 28 years
where the RSI 2 below 25 by makes money
holding it one day we also notice
another pattern so let me show you here
you can see that the mirror version
strategy itself is me
reverting so let me show you that means
the strategy itself Peaks and goes back
to the mean Peaks and go back to the
mean Peaks go back Peaks and go back and
in fact now as I'm recording this in
2024 I expect either that the year will
do nothing or lose money and then we
start to Peak and go back for the next 5
years so most probably usually this
happens in the first year or the second
year so 25 or 26 theoretically based on
this pattern should be a great year for
me reversion systems on the S&P 500 but
overall I expect this pattern to
continue this expectation now is based
on Perry Kaufman I consider Perry
Kaufman one of my mentors and he
mentioned to me this in an interview on
this channel He also mentioned it in his
books usually more participants coming
to an instrument create a mere reversion
effect because more Traders they have
collectively different opinions and they
push it either one way and it has to go
back to the mean or they push it the
other way and it has to go back to the
mean and the less participant in the
market usually produce a trend following
effect now another pattern I collected
is the 5-day return so same thing it's
the same strategy the RSI 2 below 20 5
we buy but now we are holding for 5 days
obviously when we hold more we expect to
make more money and this is the result
of holding the S&P 500 for 5 days when
the RSI 2 goes below 25 now we notice a
different pattern the switch happened a
lot earlier so remember before in one
day pattern the switch happened around
1983 till 1994 and then in 1995 we
stayed in this me reversion but now we
notice that since 1975 until
1982 that's when we saw the behavior
switches and then since 1983 we are in
me reversion so since
1983 holding for more than one day
usually makes the me reversion strategy
very profitable and in fact since then
we had only five years that are losing
years and the rest are profitable and I
can still see the effect of Mir
reversion on the Mir reversion strategy
so you can see here we are peing and
down peing and down peing and down peing
and down peeking so it's five Cycles in
the 5-day strategy but again it looks
like we are at the bottom now and we are
going to pick up next year and the year
after and that is what separate Alo
Traders from your junk YouTube Traders
because we are backing everything with
numbers statistical numbers meaning what
meaning I have to have a lot of data to
come up with a good conclusion but just
blindly saying you know wait for the
price to pull back to the whatever and
then do 3 to one all that is basically
BS to me and to all algo Traders as an
algo Trader you're just looking at
numbers you don't care about the
instrument the underlying the technical
analysis just data you apply your
methodology G put your filters on if it
works good do you have enough numbers to
back it up excellent build the portfolio
trade profitably so you need to take
action to become a profitable Trader and
the action step meaning you need to
learn how to develop a robust successful
trading strategy to learn more watch
this video and I will see you
[Music]
there
yeah
