is your portfolio not performing as
expected You Are Not Alone most Traders
and investors struggles to build a
robust profitable portfolio but you are
in luck because I'm going to teach you
how to construct a robust profitable
portfolio most people struggle to build
a robust portfolio because first of all
they lack the number of Diversified
strategies to pick from and construct a
portfolio and even when they do they
like the tools and the workflow to
construct a robust portfolio so let's
dive into this stepbystep guide on how
to construct your portfolio first of all
you need a lot of strategies that are
tested for robustness and been developed
earlier now this is totally separate
subject and that's what my algot trading
Master Class teaches you to do but once
you have this database of robust
strategies now comes the part of
constructing the portfolio and step
number one is we need to define the goal
of course most people will think that I
want to make most amount of money and if
that's the case then it's extremely easy
you pick the highest profitable
strategies put them in a portfolio and
start trading but in reality you don't
want the highest profit but you want the
highest profit with the lowest draw down
and that's called return to draw down
ratio because you don't want to make
let's say double the amount of money but
suffering 80% draw down because in
reality you will not be holding that
portfol folio in that draw down step
number two is diversification now most
people think that diversification comes
from different markets and unfortunately
that's not true in reality most
diversification comes from the direction
and the style of the strategy let's
think about this for example if you're
trading crude oil long and short so two
strategies one going long one going
short so obviously both of these
strategies are highly Diversified
because one is going in the opposite
direction of the other also you can add
time so if you're trading intraday
that's going to be different than daily
going to be different than weekly you
can add the style so meor reversion
strategy by definition will go the
opposite way of a breakout strategy so
by diversifying Direction the holding
amount of time the style of the strategy
longterm and short term you will get
huge divers ification rather than the
market itself because you can easily
trade crude oil and natural gas and you
will be highly correlated step number
three is tools so you will need some
tools to construct the best portfolio
unfortunately without tools you are very
limited in the things that you can do
let's say you have 100 strategies if you
don't have any tools then you are
limited let's say to Excel or Google
Sheets then you can upload the trading
data for the strategies do your
correlation and then out of the
diversification that we talked about in
step two and the correlation then you
will try to combine some of them in a
portfolio this is an example of about uh
50 strategies and you can see how hard
it is if you do this in Excel assume
this is Excel is the same thing I'm just
showing the correlation between these
strategies so from the correlation you
pick let's say this one and this one and
you basically you combine some of them
with different time frame and like I
mentioned it's a trial and error but if
you have tools then of course you can do
much much more and today I will
construct the portfolio using strategy
Quant X portfolio module so here we are
in strategy Quant X and we are in the
portfolio master module so I loaded here
a
249 strategy
now you can do this with any number of
strategies but I'm going to pick
something simpler to explain what I am
doing so in this data bank I have 59
strategies and I picked 54 only I
excluded the crude oil so like you can
see here we have A6 CT DX these are all
Futures except for the USD JPY this is
Forex and I excluded the crude oil so
out of this whole Data Bank I'm only
going to use 54 strategies the one that
are picked to construct a portfolio so
first of all we are starting with robust
strategies that been developed already
and stored in the datab bank so now we
go to full settings and let's look at
our options so this is the data bank
that I will be using so like remember
it's this one strategy bank and see
here's 59 remember I picked 54 so I need
to say only selected that means I will
only pick from the selected strategies
in the datab bank so in this case I'm
not using crude oil in this portfolio
and then we will store it in portfolios
now the number of strategies I want to
pick between five and 10 now this number
is up to you but I recommend between
five and 15 actually 15 is a good number
but let's do 10 now for Simplicity out
of all these VAR ations from the
strategies and the portfolios we will
only store 10 portfolios that doesn't
mean we will stop after 10 we will keep
working because you see in the next step
we are ranking so we are ranking the
portfolios that we are developing so
when a better portfolio will come
through the ranking we will replace it
and I will show you this in a second and
then we have sector selection currently
this is not working I'm in version 138
so basically what you you need is in
data manager these symbols has to have a
sector so when you come here and you can
say well don't pick from this sector
then it will affect it currently I don't
see the effect and even if it's there is
an effect there is no way to tell which
Market belonged to which sector I mean
there is no definition for that and then
we have correlations so obviously we
want low correlations so I will use uh
correlation by week for profit and loss
and we will
use3 and I will allow negative
correlation so that means a strategy
could be correlated up to3 and negative
correlation is allowed now correlation
can be done through multiple ways it can
be done on the open positions on the
number of positions or on the profit and
loss in this case I'm taking profit and
loss because that's what we are most
concerned with so for example if you
have five positions open but they all
yield to let's say profits that means
they're already correlated so why would
I care if they are open or not I care
about the correlation of the profit and
loss now the position correlation comes
handy when you want to find out how much
money you need to trade because if you
have five positions open most of the
time highly correlated that means you
will need more money to trade this
portfolio but but we can do this later
on with Monte Carlo so we are not
concerned with it right now okay so we
are good with this let's close now the
return to draw down here is only for
ranking the number of portfolios so for
example if I develop 100 portfolios I
will only pick the top 10 based on
return to draw down but what the
portfolios are graded on is this so we
have the most flexibility to build our
portfolio so let me scroll down so for
example here I want the minimum return
to draw down is to be five so even
though I am ranking but the minimum is
five so I will not have a
portfolio less than five return to draw
down ratio next we have profit Factor so
no portfolio will be less than
1.3 next I added number of Trades so
every portfolio will have a minimum of
500 trades now of course this is
extremely flexible because you can come
here and add any value you like out of
these so you can see the possibilities
are endless and it's not about adding
many it's about adding something you
like so for example I don't want my open
Draw down to be of a certain value in
dollars or in Pips or in percent and so
on so forth let's keep our portfolio
constructions simple and let's start
with these finally we have the data
range So currently I have from 2019 till
uh 2023 this is the data I have now I
have older data but I'm not going to use
it because some Futures they don't have
all the data and now we come to this
part which is we are going to use brute
force or genetic search so unless your
Brute Force variations come to let's say
a thousand then it it's you cannot use
it because anything above a th000 will
take a really long time to do so most of
the time I would say
99.9% of the time you will use genetic
method because you can tell like really
the possibilities are in billions
sometimes in trillions and I'll show you
how simple this is so going back to this
remember I have 15 four strategies
selected and we are constructing a
portfolio between five and 10 so in your
head you would think maybe this will
bring a 100 variations or a thousand but
if you go to progress let's put this
down and you click on this number this
is to refresh and let's count this 1 2 3
1 2 3 1 23 so this is 30
billion variations out of only 54
strategies so you can see how this is uh
extremely extremely hard to do with
Brute Force so you should always pick
genetic search now if you think this
number is wrong which I thought about it
so we can test this so I ask chat gbt I
have 54 strategies would like to
construct five to 10
strategies and without the position of
the strategy making any change so let's
say if strategy a position number three
or position number seven it doesn't
matter and it did its thing and this is
the result it's 9.6 billion variations
now I know sqx is showing 30 I don't
know why but at least we know we are in
billions so uh it's not a fluke so here
we are and let's go to portfolios so
remember we are taking strategy Bank
selected only and we are putting the
results in portfolios so let's startop
this and remember we ask it to come up
with 10 but once we reach 10 you will
notice something will happen so here we
are at 10 but you see there are some
variations happening and that's because
whenever the process finds a better
portfolio in return to draw down ratio
so if I sort on return to draw
down so here we can see 1509 and the
lowest is 12. 17 so you see whenever it
find a better portfolio it will replace
the lowest one so currently we have
12.48 and now we have 12.51 so it will
keep doing this forever I mean it will
not stop because it has 30 billion
variations to go through now let me stop
it and now we have our 10 portfolios and
first thing I want to bring to mind is
the rejected detail so if we click on
this let's see so you see 61% % of the
rejection because I have less than 500
trades so this is important to know
because let's say if you want more
variations or you're not getting what
you are looking for then this is the
first thing to play with is to reduce
the this requirement or to remove it all
the next one is the uh profit Factor 1.3
and 20% of that and then you notied that
the correlation is even before the
return to draw down that means what that
means my return to draw down actually is
not doing anything look at this it's
1.4% rejection because of return to draw
down so we might as well remove this
condition Al together and introduce a
new condition because currently this
condition is only adding complication
without any advantage now of course this
is an pursuit of many many variables
because like I showed you you you have a
huge library of variations so once you
click here you have a huge library to
choose from and to pick what you want so
for example I can add edge ratio or
efficiency ratio and those might produce
better portfolios now once you go
through this maybe you know two three 10
times you will find the most effective
filters for your portfolios because
remember these are filters just like
strategy filter okay so here is our
first portfolio and this is the weekly
profit and loss correlations and as you
can see they're all of course below
three because we already stipulated that
in our conditions in our Equity curve
let's put this down uh so this is our
Equity curve and you notice that we have
a stagnation of
661 days and you notice there is a in
Sample and out of sample so this is the
out of sample since half of 2013 so
strategy Contex is using 30% as in
Sample and the rest as out of sample 70%
as out of sample now uh you cannot
control this for now but it would be
nice to have control over this in Sample
and out of sample and I'm sure as this
uh module develops they will be adding
these uh more and more because I think
what the sqx team is trying to do is uh
bringing everything in Quant analyzer to
sqx now we can see the strategies inside
so you can see here these are the curves
of the strategy and here the colors of
the strategy So currently we have uh GC
uh USD JPY es j6 another es remember I
told you that the currently you cannot
control which markets or how many
strategies from a single Market this is
our trade analysis is and list of Trades
and of course it will list uh all trades
so here they are sorted by time so this
is es J USD JPY another es here we have
GC and so on so forth now you can see of
course long short separately in Sample
out of sample
separately and also you can pick every
strategy separately so let me see this
strategy alone really the implementation
of this portfolio module is one of the
best I've seen in the market okay so
let's say now I have this portfolio and
I want to add a crude oil strategy to
this portfolio so this portfolio has no
crude oil because I didn't use it so
let's copy the portfolio and let's put
it in a new datab
bank and then let's copy the
strategies and put them in this datab
bank so now I have this portfolio and
and five crude oil strategies so we will
use the portfolio and the five crude oil
strategies so this is the source Data
Bank no need for only selected we will
use all of them and we will put this the
port new portfolio in temp now we have
the portfolio and a strategy so this
will act as one strategy so we want two
so two that means hopefully it will use
the portfolio and one of the strategy
now sometimes it will use two crude oil
strategy because remember this doesn't
work currently same data we have and
again we are using genetic although in
this case we can use brute force because
the number of combinations will be very
low so we can see all of them and I will
not pick any of these because I want to
see all the iterations and let's see
when we get so if I go back to progress
let's refresh this so you see we have
Max maimum of 28 variations so we're
doing brute force and I will increase
this to 30 to have all of them and let's
start the process and we should see all
of them here so 26 only although it says
28 so I don't know what happened to the
other two but in any case now we want to
look and see which one of these produced
our portfolio with crude oil so let's
click and let's go to equity it so this
is two crude oil so this is also two
crude oil but the third one is our
portfolio plus the crude oil strategy
this one is also our portfolio and
another crude oil now this crude oil
strategy is
1356 and this one is 1101 in reality we
should have five variations because this
portfolio with this one or with this one
or with this or so only five VAR iations
should be left and if you scroll through
these you will find all five variations
so without going through all the trouble
of rebuilding your portfolio from
scratch you can delete a strategy from a
portfolio and introduce a new better one
once you are happy with the portfolio
then you can take that and trade it each
separately because the strategy is this
is not a combined code each strategy is
a separate code and you need to put it
on a separate chart and trade it
separately if you liked what you watch
so far then you will love this next
video
[Music]
