are you tired of your strategy not
performing or not working at all and
without looking at your strategy I can
tell you most of the time it will be the
lack of filters really strategy filters
is the most important component of any
strategy now most Traders don't
understand this critical part because
they think of a strategy as a black box
like it's a bunch of statements even if
you're discretionary you probably have
many notes trend line and Fibonacci and
blah blah blah but you don't know really
any strategy has to have three critical
components entry exit and a filter in
the middle so regardless of how many
statements how many conditions you have
usually your strategy has an entry for
example three close in a row the close
below Ballinger bands the close is the
lowest in the five days the moving
average cross below the longterm moving
average and so on so for that's an entry
an exit usually a stop loss a profit
Target an indicator or a certain price
level and so on so forth but the filter
which is the most important part of a
strategy it's what lets the strategy
trade in a favorable environment and
that's what makes a so so strategy jump
to a really good strategy or a really
good strategy to be an amazing strategy
and unfortunately most beginner Traders
overlook this critical part which is the
strategy filters so in this video I will
show you the most important filters and
they usually sit in five categories so
as you progress in your trading career
you will start to accumulate filters and
you'll start actually to know
immediately that what filter will work
with what strategy but even if you don't
know if you collect bunch of filters and
you run it through your strategy one of
them will will definitely enhance your
strategy metrics and those filters are
not optimization so a filter is a fixed
filter for example a binary filter which
is above the 200 day or below the 200
day moving average that's it it's a very
simple filter now of course you can
optimize this look back period but I
don't recommend that you need to fix
your filters and it's either going to
work or not but you can add many of the
same so 200 day moving average you don't
want to add 195 or 180 maybe you want to
add 100 because that's a huge difference
between 200 and 100 now that we know how
filter affect the strategies let's start
with our best filter the first category
and the most important one you should
add in Your Arsenal is volatility
filters really this is usually the best
filter to apply to any strategy and from
the same volatility filters apply
volatility to your trading strategy so
S&P 500 index for example has its own
volatility measure which is the vix the
vix uses the options expiry in 30 days
to derive the volatility in the S&P 500
so this has nothing to do with the price
of the instrument other instruments have
the volatility measure usually through
standard deviation or the a average true
range so for example if the average true
range of five bars is greater than the
average true range of the five bars one
bar ago that means your volatility is
expanding if your Ballinger band width
is expanding again that means your
volatility is expanding if your Kelner
Channel expanding that again means your
volatility is expanding because Kelner
Channel uses the average true range also
if you take the range of the bar the
simple range of the bar the average of
that range of the bar expanding means
also volatility is expanding and of
course you can mix and match between
these two they don't have to be
expanding Contracting you can say well
if the range today is the highest in the
previous 10 bars even though that we
were shrinking that means we just
expanding second most important category
in filters is Direction sometimes it's
called Trend sometimes called momentum
they all mean the same thing basically
we want to go or trade a breakout
strategy with the direction of the trend
so if the trend is up I want to wait for
a pullback to trade a me reversion or I
want to trade a breakout to trade long
with that Trend I don't trade a short
breakout when the trend is up even
though I might make money but most of
the time I will lose money so my win
percent will be affected or my draw down
will be big so an example of a trend or
direction or momentum filter is rate of
change so rate of change will tell us
the momentum the moving average will
tell us the direction or the trend third
category of strategy filters is
structural filters these filters usually
have something to do with the instrument
itself so for example the US indexes has
something called the advance and decline
ratio for the S&P 500 we measure the
number of stocks going up and we measure
the number of stocks going down and we
divide those and we get ratio that ratio
will only apply to this index and the
stocks inside this index so for example
we cannot use the advanced decline ratio
on crude oil Futures but we also have
something that in the Futures that
doesn't apply to stock so for example
commitment of Traders on gold has
nothing to do do with stocks or with
crude oil also we have other structural
issues like volume so volume usually has
nothing to do with price and usually
that's also a good filters and again
like all the other filters you can build
many of these at a fixed rate so for
example if the current volume greater
than the average volume of the last
three days then that's a filter so those
structural filters has nothing to do
with with the trend or the volatility
category number four is one of my
favorite which is pattern filters
pattern filters are like literally
thousands you can build because there
are so many variations it's actually
impossible to encapsulate all of them
for example let's start with the bar
patterns now these are not Candlestick
patterns which are usually one or two
you can build multibar patterns which I
actually have this tool built in
strategy quantex and in trade station
and multi- charts where you take five
bars and you build all kind of
variations in those like two close down
three close up two open down three close
up higher highs higher lows so for
example we can say if the close today is
lower than the close of yesterday and if
the close today is lower than the last
10 closes then that's a pattern or if
the high today is higher than the
previous High High and the high of
yesterday is higher than the previous
High that's also a pattern you can mix
and match like literally like I
mentioned millions of these but I
suggest you pick maybe I don't know 100
of them and fix them and those will be
in your category of filters for the
pattern filters and last category for
strategy filters is seasonal now
sometimes this is called time or bias
but usually I call them seasonal
patterns because they encapsulate
everything that has to do with
seasonality now you can have intraday
seasonality for example don't go long on
Mondays but go long on Tuesdays so
Monday usually it's bad to go along on
certain instruments or don't trade in
the uh us morning session that's
intraday seasonality or don't trade
don't go long let's say in September
that's a monthly seasonal pattern also
you might go long on the end of the
month I have a video on that where you
can trade on the end of the month
because usually the end of the month has
a drift upward so that's good to go long
on stocks and indexes so that's also can
be a filter which is to only trade at
the end of the month last week of the
month or first week of the month usually
seasonal filters will be few like you
cannot build a million or hundred of
them so maybe I don't know 10 20 40 uh
filters will be the maximum you can get
with seasonality the more you add then
you're just adding kind of the same so
this category is the lowest number of
filters you will have usually now some
filters might jump between these
categories so you might say well the
narrowing range is a volatility filter
but it's also a pattern filter so some
of them will overlap but most of them
will not but the idea of creating
categories for these filters is
extremely extremely important I didn't
do it to put a list for you usually you
can mix some of these filters without
affecting the strategy optimization for
example if I mix volatility with
Direction I'm actually using two
different drivers for filtering so a
long trend has nothing to do with the
volatility expanding or shrinking or a
dodgy pattern mixed with don't trade on
Fridays also has nothing to do with each
other so they have two different drivers
so usually by mixing two or three
filters from these categories will yield
a better strategy of course you keep
diminishing the number of Trades which
is you need to keep an eye out because
you don't want to start with a strategy
of 500 trades and end up with 30 trades
so you need to be careful with how many
filters you add let me know what your
thoughts on these filters and if you
have any favorite ones and if you like
this video then you will love the next
video
[Music]
