if you are a Trader or just interested
in the financial markets most likely
you've heard of the evx index in this
video I will explain what the index is
and how to use it to trade its
derivatives or to use it as a filter for
other strategies on other instruments so
the VIX Index is a forward-looking
indicator meaning it can forecast the
price of the S&P 500 Index because the
VIX Index is built on the S&P 500 Index
option prices it basically looks 30 days
ahead on the price of options and
determine if there is risk uncertainty
in the market or there is not so when
there is risk or uncertainty in the
market the price will go up the price of
the S&P 500 will go down and when the
price of the index is low that means
there is no risk or there is certainty
in the market and that means the price
of the S&P 500 most likely will go up
over the next 30 days now the index
itself it's not tradable but there are
derivatives on the index like VX which
is the futures or multiple ETFs that you
can trade on the index so here I have
the index at the bottom and the Futures
derivative on the top so you cannot
trade the index like I mentioned but you
can trade the futures or the ETFs and if
I zoom out we can notice something
immediate which is the vix is always in
a downd drift so this data going back
all the way to 2006 and we can see
whenever we Spike we go down whenever we
Spike we go down so if we look at the
previous Spike so this is around 85 and
that's the 2008 and here we have two at
45 this is
2011 and
2010 and then we have two more at
45 this is 2015
and
2018 and then we have the most recent
which is co at 85 so if we are looking
for spikes to trade the index we going
to have very few signals basically we
have two at
85 and four at 45 and maybe another uh 6
or 10 at around 20 something the problem
is how do you know if the 10 or 20
spikes will go to 40 or will go to 80
because if you short 20 and the spike
goes to 80 basically will be wiped out
so the way to trade the index is not to
trade the spike up instead is to wait
for a spike up and when it goes down
then we short that market because
basically we're only looking for short
trades there is no point in going long
on the vix it's drifting down all the
time now there are many ways to do this
and I am going to use a simple moving
average crossover so I have a fast
moving average a slow moving average and
when they cross when the fast moving
average cross below the slow moving
average I will short the index which is
basically I'm shorting the Futures and
when the cross happen on the opposite
side I exit the TR so very simple but
that is a signal to enter a strategy but
we also use it as a filter for other
signals so let's do the strategy uh on
its own first okay so now I applied the
strategy of the two moving averages and
you can see here the light blue is the
fast moving average the dark blue is the
slow moving average so whenever we cross
above we exit the trade when we cross
below we enter the trade and so on and
so forth so the strategy is immediately
profitable now this is very important
because you need to learn this I
mentioned this in most of my videos
which is priority number one is matching
the style of the strategy to the
characteristics of the instrument you
want to trade in this case we want to
trade short
only and we are waiting for a spike to
go down so we need to match a strategy
style for that instrument and that's why
it's very easy to find a profitable
strategy this and we're making 3:1
return to draw down ratio and if we look
at the trade analysis 163 trades 460 on
average and 52 win per. but let's
optimize now the entry and exit now
currently I am
using the entry and exit the same so you
can see here the strategy has three
parameters so the fast length for entry
slow length for entry and fast length
for exit now in order to reduce the
number of parameters
I made the slow length of the exit three
times the fast length so it's fixed and
that's how you can reduce the number of
parameters to trade also of course
you'll reduce the number of
optimizations which is a very good habit
to get into in any case currently for
this strategy I was using the same so
five and 20 so five for the fast moving
average and 20 for the slow moving
average and for the exit I am using five
as the fast moving average and it's a
fixed ratio remember it's three so that
means 15 it's the exit moving average so
now we will optimize all of them from 5
to 60 step five that should gives us
about 1,700 strategies so remember I'm
trading the VX Futures so this is just
for illustration the index at the bottom
so here are the results and if we sort
by return to draw down ratio IO and let
me go down so let me look at
three okay so this three so 660
strategies above 3 to1 return to draw
down ratio that's really really good uh
like that's almost a third of the
strategy so let's filter for 50 trades
because we're not going to have too many
trades and let's see we have
438 and let's look at the
graph okay so this is about
,000 so right now what we have is the
fast length and the slow length the
z-axis is net profit and then this
filter is the exit remember the exit
fast length and then the exit slow
length moving average is three times the
fast length so that's why I did it
because now I can only look at these and
I can easily judge a stability pattern
so let's move down okay this all already
looks good so 15 the exit and I can see
here there's a huge stable
area 20 even better almost half of it
then
25 so 15 to 30 looks very good 35 is
going down and 45 very good stable area
50 again back so almost all of them
stable except for five and
10 so 15 and above they're all stable
area so I have no issues now with 15 we
have only this section so this is the
fast length so up to 20 but then if I go
above look at this from uh 45 all the
way to five on the fast
side and actually all the slow side is
good and you can see this is a this nice
pattern uh this is when there is no
crossover so it's zero uh so this is not
a dip like this considered stable
because it's just there is no crossover
because the moving averages are the same
value uh so let's look at something
around 20 so if I go here and look at
20 okay so these are all 20 they are all
good and I'm going to look for something
maybe this one this is six return to
draw down remember they're all stable so
let me pick this one
and let's look at the stats so this is
50 trades 56 uh% uh win rate about
$3,000 uh per trade that's huge and if I
look at the curve the curve is very very
nice the only drawback is the number of
Trades okay so trading the vix itself is
very profitable in fact we have so many
options to trade because there's a huge
Edge in the the vix which is it's always
drifting down remember from my all
videos I mentioned that the es always
moving up this is even better it's
always moving down more than the S&P 500
now you already can tell that because of
this drift so most likely it's highly
correlated negatively correlated with
the S&P 500 and if you reach that
conclusion you are correct the VIX Index
is negatively correlated to the S&P 500
of course it's built on the options from
the S&P 500 Index so they are huge like
the relation is very big so that means
we can trade the S&P 500 based on the
vix signal so here now I have the Es at
the top this is the Futures and this is
the VIX Index and again I'm using the
same moving average fast and slow and
but this time when they cross I am
trading the es instead of the vix and I
need to do this on the opposite side
because remember the es is negatively
correlated to the vix and in fact you
can see this very clearly if I zoom
out you can see whenever the vix Peaks
the S&P 500 bottoms and whenever the uh
vix bottoms the S&P 500 Peaks so it's
clearly the opposite uh signal so now I
can optimize again now I'm optimizing
this moving average on the VIX Index but
I am trading the S&P 500 so these moving
averages are on data 2 and again the
slow moving average of the exit is three
times the fast moving average of the
exit because remember these two moving
averages are for the entry and this
moving average is for the exit so again
we're optimizing from 5 to 60 step five
about
1,700 uh strategy so out of 1,700
strategies I filtered 100 trades and 100
uh dollars moving average I have 34
strategies that doing really well and if
I sort return to draw down I have 4.8
and if we look at the 3D graph so this
is five the exit and then
10 15
so 20 is already good I have this
diagonal then 25 is also good this is a
huge stable area 30 is good 35 H not so
much 40 starts to drop 45 is really good
in here so again whatever you pick there
is a big huge stable area look at 55
almost all of it is a stable area and so
let me pick
maybe this guy 80 trade 64% win rate at
$1,100 on average this is for the es so
this is a huge average
trade and this is the uh the equity
curve so here are five strategies so as
you can see I'm trading the es Futures
and using data 2 as the VIX Index and
I'm using the signal from the VIX Index
the moving average crossover to enter
and exit the es but because there are
low number of Trades so I picked five
strategies now I can trade the micro
Futures and I will need half the margin
required for One Mini es contract so
that's also an advantage now I need less
money and I'm trading better strategies
of course they will have correlations
but still is better than picking one so
let's back test these five
strategies and look at this this is
amazing
so how many trades now we
have so I have now 283 strategies on
average I am making
$2,400 so that is an advanced way to
trade because most people looking for a
single strategy the Holy Grail I'm going
to trade the strategy be rich but
usually it doesn't work that way you
need more than one strategy you can add
five more strategies and now you're
trading 10 strategies with the the Marg
requirement of a single e here is the
periodical analysis and we can see since
2007 and
currently I have four trades this year
I'm doing this video uh till the
beginning of March 2024 and we have four
trades with a 100% win rate and uh the
average is about
$3,500 but here is the part where I want
you to focus on so we are trading the
same instrument the same strategy I'm
only picking different look Backs from a
stable area so this is not over
optimizing I'm picking a stable area and
yes I have correlations but still this
is not one this is not 100% correlated
so I'm still getting
diversification from this portfolio like
look at this this
3543 46 so this is really really good
and finally because the VIX Index is
negatively correlated to the S&P 500 we
can use it as a filter for other
strategies on the S&P 500 so let's try
that now we added the rsi2 strategy on
the S&P 500 so this is the regular RSI 2
strategy when the RSI 2 below 25 we go
along and when the RSI 2 above 75 we
exit so this is the strategy
$175,000 profit 3.8 return to draw down
ratio and 327 trades 76 uh% win rate
$500 on average per trade so now I will
use the vix as a
filter to enter the rsi2 strategy and in
this case we will use when the moving
average the fast moving average above
the slow moving average we will allow
the strategy to go long using the rsi2
and when the slow when the fast moving
average below the slow moving average we
will not allow the trades to happen so
very easy it's just a filter so now
because we are using the vix as a filter
we don't have an exit moving average
remember we are using the RSI to enter
an exit the strategy so this is just a
filter so we'll go from 5 to 100 step
five and here I have let's go with four
so I have 89 strategies that beat the
original uh
strategy and this is seven obviously
this is really good and if we pick this
one this one is using 40 and 65 so 40
the fast length 65 is the slow length
and let me pick that one and let's look
at our stats so now we have we filtered
almost 15 50 trades we increase our
average trade we increase our win rate
so everything is good uh the curve oh my
God this is one of the best curves for
the RSI that I've seen uh in a while uh
because like there is almost no dip and
let's look at the
periodical and yeah as expected it's one
of the best cures so far so 2007 is a
loss that's nothing and then it's a win
all the way and again look at this this
year 100% win rate for three trades and
making $3,000 on average I mean come on
if you are watching this Channel and you
didn't pick any RSI strategy yet I don't
know what to say CU so like I featured
probably
aund
tradable robust RSI strategy so far on
the channel the takeaways are the vix
and index can be traded on its own and
it's really profitable can be used as a
signal to enter and exit a strategy on
the S&P 500 and also can be used as a
filter and it's really potent filter on
the S&P 500 because remember all other
filters are a derivative of price now
last video I did was about using volume
which is totally different and now this
the fix which is also totally different
to learn more about the evx watch this
video and I will see you
[Music]
there
