welcome traders to another exciting
journey into the world of algorithmic
trading today we are delving into a
strategy that is a favorite among
quantitative Traders while I always use
an oscillator to build a Mir version
strategy but in this video we will use
linear regression as the star of the
strategy now why me reversion is a
favorite among quantitative Traders it's
because me reversion strategies have a
high win rate plus they give us a lot of
Trades so statistically they are
significant and if you pair a Mir
version strategy with the right
instrument then you are almost always
will get a robust trading system to
Simply explain miror version I plotted
here a 30-day moving average with the
S&P 500 chart and basically what we are
looking for in me Rion strategy is when
the price deviate away from the mean so
in this case our mean is the simple
moving average of course this can be be
measures in a million ways but for
Simplicity I'm using the simple moving
average and you can see whenever the
price deviate a lot from the mean
average then we pull back to it so same
here same here and same on the opposite
side so we go down we pull back to the
average we go up we pull back to the
average we pull down we go back to the
average and so on and so forth and this
is the same chart with linear regression
so basically this linear regression now
looking 30 bars back and plotting the
mean which is in the middle and two
channels which are to standard deviation
up and down linear regression is used a
lot in the finance and many other
Industries and basically it shows you
the relationship between two or more
variables the way we are using it now is
the line that best fits a number of
points so here is an example we have
have uh many points on this uh chart
basically we have two axes and each
point represent a value between these
two axes and this black line represent
the best fit between all these points
now of course you can go further look at
the slope and the intercept and there
are many uh figures that you can get out
of this but this is the simplest way to
use linear regression so going back to
our chart and let's zoom in so currently
this red line it's the best fit in the
last 30 closes and the upper Channel and
the lower channel are two standard
deviations away from this best fit line
so of course this line will change
whenever we have more points so this is
the best fit of the last 30 points now
today we are fortunate enough to have
many sources of education and here I am
asked CH gbt to train me on how to use
linear regression and it went along and
gave me everything and in fact you can
expand on each point if you want to
learn more and then I ask it to give me
a simple A Mir reversion strategy using
linear regression so this is easy
language code here we are in multi-chart
and this is my linear regression plot so
this is the best fit in the LA
50 bars and the channels are 1 and a
half standard deviation up and down now
for example here I will show you what
was the plot looks like on this green
bar so if I plug the date so you can see
on this bar this is how the channel
looked like now the channel plots
forward but I just want to show you that
the plots will change of course with
every new point now sometimes it doesn't
because the best fit line between these
points might not have changed and
sometimes it Chang a little bit and
sometimes it change a lot and the idea
behind using linear regression as a
miror version strategy is because of
these channels so basically when the
price touches the lower Channel then we
are looking to go long for the mean and
when the price touches the upper Channel
we looking to go short to get back to
the meat basically it's the same way
that we treat all me reversion
strategies we are looking for some kind
of pullback to go along or some kind of
overshoot to go short now let's apply
the chat gbt strategy and let's see how
it turns out so this is the strategy
applied and the returns are not good
this is without commission and slippage
so basically both sides are losing but
the strategy comes with input so let's
optimize it and see the result so here
are the the inputs we have the look back
length and the standard deviation
multiplier profit Target and stop- loss
so I put these values and we have 16,000
combinations and looking at the result
if we filter for all strategies that has
a return to draw down ratio more than
one so out of 16,000 possibilities we
have 3,300 strategies making more money
than their maximum draw down and the
best one is making
117 with 700 trades on average $150 per
trade and we can see the look back is
five the standard deviation multipliers
Point 2 5,000 profit Target and 2,000
stop loss and this is how this strategy
looks like now as you can see from the
test the strategy is not that good I
didn't even do robustness but I just
wanted to show you that you can get
ideas from chat gbt nowadays so even
though the strategy is simple but it
gives you a framework to start with and
if you add filters or if you change uh
the look back period and so on you will
get to a good strategy especially if you
started with pairing the strategy to a
me reversion instrument now I mentioned
this in the beginning of the video and
what that means is not all instrument
are suited for me reversion I press on
this point a lot in all of my videos you
need to pair the strategy Style with the
instrument character istics in this case
the S&P 500 is a Me reverting instrument
that doesn't mean you cannot build
breakout or long-term Trend following
strategies on it but it's very simple to
build uh short-term Mir version systems
on it so I built my own strategy using
linear regression don't worry about the
code usually I post it below each
YouTube video in the YouTube Post in the
stat wases free community now my Strat
uses the same logic that chbt produced
but I use a different length for the
exit so this is the length for the entry
and the length for the exit no stop-
loss no profit Target and this is the
multiplier for the standard deviation
now removing the stop loss and profit
Target reduces our combinations and now
we have about 6,000 combinations so
let's test this so out of 5,700
strategies we have more than 2700
strategies uh with return to draw down
ratio more than one and no profit Target
no stop loss and no filter also so that
is very good and if we sort by net
profit and now we are above
$200,000 for the top strategy and more
than 40 strategies above 150,000 now if
I look at the top strategy here this is
the equity curve and we can see number
of Trades 188 dat we are making really
good average trade on both the long side
and the short side but here I want to
bring your attention to something really
important because we are trading this on
the same account we cannot be long and
short at the same time so that means if
we are long and we get a short signal we
will close the long signal and we will
go short and of course the opposite is
true so this means that we are not
getting the exact number of loans long
trades and short trades because they
overlap and when they overlap they
cancel each other and the right way to
test this is to separate the long from
the short so this is what I did I put
the same instrument which is the S&P 500
same data but now I separated the long
here and the short here so we have two
strategies working on the same time so
the difference will be that when the
signals overlap they will not cancel
each other they will still keep going so
on the right side here this is the
strategy with long and short in the same
logic and we pick the best one which is
188 trades and the strategy is making
229 with 8 to1 return to draw down ratio
this is the portfolio on the left side
here and each strategy is working on its
own and I can show you this so this is
the correlation based on on daily equity
and we can see that we are negatively
correlated at almost half that means
that half of the time while one strategy
is making money the other one is losing
money and of course that is a huge
advantage and we can see this in the
number of Trades so for example here
let's compare the trades 188 here we
have 350 now if we look at the
performance summary for both you can see
this one is
$230,000 almost and this one is
$291,000 but still keeping the same
return to draw down ratio so we increase
our net profit a lot while keeping the
draw down in the same ratio so that is
very good if we go to the annual period
analysis you can see that since 2006 we
had 6 years losing money in the strategy
that has both long and short logic in
the the same system while when trading
the strategy separately even though it's
the same logic but trading them
separately you can see we have only one
year losing money actually it's two
because there's no slippage on
commissions so this is also will be a
losing year so two instead of six but
also notice the number of Trades so here
it's almost always 20 something and here
they are all in the teens and especially
this year we have have eight trades here
and 18 trades here and finally we look
at the curve and you can see how this
curve is doing nothing from almost 2009
till
2018 while this curve is sloping up all
the time and while sloping up all the
time we didn't lose this huge jump since
2019 so you can see here since 2019 it's
exactly the same jump in fact if
anything we made more money the key take
ways here is there are a million ways to
build a mere version strategy but like I
always say this with my students with my
Q&A sessions in the chat segment of the
community everywhere with everybody I
meet always match the strategy Style
with the instrument always test long and
short separately and if you want to
combine them you have to combine them in
a separate account or in an account that
lets you trade both directions at the
same way because most Brokers will not
let you do this Trading long and short
at the same time but you can easily do
it by two accounts so you trade the
short strategy in one account and the
long strategy in another account the
advantages are big and you cannot
neglect that the other big takeaway is
any indicator can be used in any way you
like so don't depend on the defaults or
what every body is showing you explore
and do a lot of trial and error to find
out what other ways you can use this
indicators so for example I use linear
regression in this video As A Mir
version instrument but I also used it in
another video to build Trend following
strategy which is totally the opposite
of Mir R Vision in fact if anything they
complete each other in a portfolio and
if you want to learn how to do that
watch this video and I will see you
there
[Music]
