have you ever dreamed of effortlessly
creating hundreds of profitable trading
strategies what if I told you that you
can do all that with one powerful tool
in today's video we will use that tool
to create hundreds of strategies then
combine them into 50 portfolios each
with different markets long and short
hello everyone I am Ali Casey from stat
Oasis Channel RSI is one of the best
strategies that you can employ in your
portfolio I have many versions of it on
the channel and you can use any of those
versions to put in your portfolio today
we will use strategy Quant X to build a
template for this strategy then we will
use that template to generate thousands
of strategies long and short on
different markets not only that we will
use the portfolio component to combine
all these using some trickery inside sqx
to come up with a uncorrelated portfolio
or multi multiple portfolios of
uncorrelated strategy here we are in
strategy Quant X version
138 x and we will use the algo wizard
module to build a template so the RSI
template if you don't know it is
extremely simple just uh type in the
search
RSI and you should see it here so we'll
use the RSI
to
lower
than 25 and the exit will be the RSI 2
greater than
75 this is the plain vanilla RSI
strategy and if you're doing it on the
indexes there is really a good filter
which is the close greater than the 200
day moving average so right now if I
test this using trade station engine on
ES data and Futures that's the S&P
500 and we'll use daily bars and we'll
use one contract and if we run a full
back test we know the strategy is doing
very
well and this is the equity chart when
you see flat periods that means the
price is below the 200 day moving
average and that's why you don't trade
and that's why this Filter Works the
point of using sqx to build a template
is this so we know the RSI two below 25
go long above 75 exit Works what if we
want to do below 20 below 15 below 5 and
what if we want to do different exit or
different filters and that's the power
of the template so the template can have
all these options built in and then we
add our own filters in terms of number
of Trades the average trade return to
draw down strategy Quant X has hundreds
of these metrics that you can use to
filter the strategies so let me show you
how so now I can switch this to a
template by going to the settings and
going to advance and then just switch
this on once you switch it on you will
see this green uh template code and now
I can make any of these to change within
the template so for example the RSI 2 I
can change
that to go from
2 to 10
in step of one that means the template
will try RSI 2 RSI 3 RSI 4 all the way
up to
10 now of course I can do the shift also
we can change the close but let's leave
it simple just on the close also I can
play with the level So currently it's 25
and I will generate
randomly from five all the way to 45 in
a step of five now also again you can do
step of one I don't see the benefit of
that but you know again you can play
with this to have more uh Randomness now
I will not change the filter although
you might say well we can do this let's
do the filter instead of 200 we can go
from 100 to 250 step
25 that's also
doable and of course also we can do the
exit and we have the exit again the RSI
Look Back 2 to 10 step of one and the
level to exit 55 to 95 step of
five and this is our template to go
long now if we don't have a stop loss or
a trailing stop or a profit Target here
then that will not play a role when we
generate using the template so basically
the template forces sqx to only follow
these rules so for example here I have
built a long
template so I have a random exit after
bars from 1 to 15 so other than this
exit signal I have the number of bars
also I have an extra random condition so
this means I have to use always the
close above the moving average and also
I have a random condition which I will
use from sqx this random condition can
be added using this so random condition
and you just add it and it's there so
this is the long side also I have the
same thing on the short side now you
notice on the short side I don't have
the close below the 200 day moving
average which should be the opposite of
the long because usually the short side
doesn't benefit from that filter at
least in my experience on the indexes
and again to generate some different
versions of this strategy so now we have
two templates and don't worry about the
code you can get these templates in the
stes free community okay so now how can
we use it to generate strategies if we
go to Builder you see here we can load
strategy from template and here I am
loading the long signal now just like I
told you nothing here will affect the
template because the template it will
follow exactly those rules so if this
rule has an exit after bars it will use
it if it doesn't then even if you click
it here so for example in I think
building blocks here you see you have
exit after bars even if you switch it on
it will not be used because it's not in
the template but remember in the
template we have a condition so that
condition will be used here so if you go
to number of conditions here the minimum
and maximum so that mean I'm forcing sqx
to add only one condition in here so
this is the random condition so even
though I have only one
statement in Builder I can force it to
go one or more so here we are forcing it
to one now this condition where it's
going to come from it's going to come
from the building blocks so right now if
I switch all these blocks that means sqx
will
have 284 blocks to choose from I can
also add all indicators
and of course I can add all these so you
can add all of them and then you don't
lose anything it's just
filters that will be used now once the
strategies are generated which are
thousands then we need to rank them so
for ranking I used number of minimum
number of Trades 50 the average trade is
100 and return to draw down ratio is
four and then for the maximum number of
strategies to store is 50 but generate
500 that means if I run this template
now and I get 50 the data bank will stop
storing more than 50 but it will keep
generating until 500
strategies past these
filters and so we can start with of
course es now you might ask well why
start with es all the time and I've
mentioned this many times on the channel
That the es usually works very well with
long me reversion but if you are
watching this video up to this point you
will get a tip that is not mentioned in
the
description the tip is you can easily
find out if a market is going to work
with a certain strategy so for example
focus on this the es. dd1 this is live
I'm not editing this I'm going to click
Start and you see 50 we already reached
50 now we are looking for better
strategies to store you can see these
are changing because when sqx is Finding
better strategies it's adding them
although the total will be 50 and we are
done with
500 okay and here is the tip let's work
with something that doesn't work with
long near reversion and for example
that's NG let's focus again let's
start and do you see what's
happening I hope you figure it
out so now that we generated multiple
strategies basically 50 on each market
that works with long me reversion or
works with short me rsion we'll have
multiple markets long and short plus we
will have different conditions even on
the same instrument so for example Das
even on the same instrument I will have
different look backs and also different
filters and I can show you the
difference so going back to the es here
so let's look at this one so this is
randomly let's look at the source code
and it's in sudo code so it's plain
English and let's see what this strategy
is doing so this strategy is when the
RSI below
45 and also remember we have the RSI
period which is in this case it's three
and the close above the moving average
is 125 and then we're exiting when the
RSI different period in this case it is
five so we're entering when the RSI 3
below a level we're exiting when the RSI
5 above a level also we have a filter in
this case I guess this is a Fibonacci
level yes it's
38.2 greater than the fractal down which
I have no idea what this is and then
let's look another one okay so this uh
makes sense to me so the lowest price
the lowest high is is does not equal the
triple moving average two bars ago let's
look at another
one this is the EM that's the
exponential moving average is lower than
the super
Trend and this is the simplest I guess
so
momentum of the price which is based on
the close is rising and the period of
the momentum is 65 so that's simple to
me now of course how simple and how
complicated all comes from these
building blocks so remember you can pick
and choose whatever you see simple or
complicated I tend to go with simple so
make sure to pick only simple filters
but now the power of sqx comes into play
so I use the Builder long and short on
different markets and then I copied
every 50 strategy in my portfolio Master
as you can see here I have 667 although
there are 50s
but I didn't like sometime I stop it in
the middle but all in all I have 676
strategies different look backs
different levels different filters and
long and short and multiple markets so
you can see this is sorted by the letter
so A6 B6 CL basically I have currencies
Commodities all type of Futures but many
many markets now before this tool
portfolio Master you need need to take
all these strategies run them inside a
software that can calculate correlations
usually those correlations daily to do
it on weekly you need to do more so
maybe something like Python matlb and
Excel is really difficult I've tried it
it's not that easy now portfolio master
in version 138 it's the beginning of
moving Quant analyzer to sqx at least
that's what I hope sqx is doing is
moving Quant analyzer Inside sqx So
currently in version 138 portfolio
Master can run correlation and can also
sort or return to draw down for each
portfolio let me show you so this is the
portfolio master and you can do either
brute force or genetic search now I
highly recommend now to use genetic
search and the reason maybe not quite so
obvious I think they should flip this
they should put genetic on top by
default because most people will have a
at least 100 strategies and if they do
anything like this like five minimum
five strategies to maximum 10 they will
end up with really a large number of
strategies and brute force will not cut
it so here if we have 100 strategies and
we want to do combinations between five
minimum five strategies up to 10
strategies in a portfolio so the number
of combinations look at this 19 with 12
zeros now if we have 20 20 strategies
you will have 600 iterations but if you
want to fix it like if the
portfolio is only five strategies out of
20 which is this one then we have
15,000 possible combinations now in my
case I have about 700 strategies and you
can see for 700 strategies to combine a
portfolio of 5 to 10
strategies the number is seven Quint
trillion so that's seven and
21 zeros so that's why you want to do
genetic because genetic will reach the
end goal much much faster so I'm looking
for 5 to 10 strategies that's what I'm
looking out of these 700 almost give me
a 5 to 10 strategies and what I'm
looking for I'm looking for 50
portfolios to generate remember you have
Quint trillion so I only want 50 and you
rank them based on return to draw down
currently we have three options net
profit and percent of stagnation that's
the amount of draw down you are in not
how deep just the the time you are in a
draw down and then return to draw down
ratio and also allow maximum three
strategies per sector now I'm assuming
this is per market right now because the
definition of sector I couldn't find it
now the correlation
this is very important and that's why I
told you this would be really hard to
implement without software even in Excel
So currently we are doing correlation by
week because I don't want to do it daily
and I will base it on profit and loss
and also when you run this I don't want
any strategy that has a correlation more
than 04 more than
point4 that means basically you are in
the Middle Ground of correlation 3
really you are not 7 you are highly
correlated and4 to7 is in the middle and
we will allow negative correlation
meaning if a strategy is completely the
opposite of the other one I will allow
it okay so and we will use the full
available data and then the filter so
once you rank these the filter I put
here is eight return to draw down ratio
because remember now we have more than
10 strategies so I require more from the
portfolio and the fact profit factor is
one point of course here like all sqx
you can have hundreds of metrics to rank
four and let me show you how fast is
this so I will start and we we look at
this database so let's start you see
it's already 50 now you can see it's
already updating even though it's
finished 50 but it's updating if it
finds better portfolio so let me stop it
and let's pick for example this one so
forget the symbol because remember now
this
is includes many symbols so you can see
here these are strategy so D6 CT GC so
this is gold crude S&P 500 Lew soybeans
and remember here you have L here and l
e here so these are opposite so long and
short and we can see now right now if I
put this down and these are the
strategies inside this portfolio we can
also run a correlation analysis which of
course we know it should be below 04 and
so for example these are the strategies
2 4 6 8 10 so we have 10 strategies all
of them color is green that means they
are uncorrelated on weekly basis and
trade analysis list of Trades so you can
see this is for example buy and you can
see the symbol we can sort by time so
you can see sometimes we're Trading rjs
sometimes
SB and these are all buy now we have
some sells so it's a completely
uncorrelated portfolio and we did it
within this video Which is less than 15
minutes now I cannot stress how
important it is to trade a portfolio a
portfolio it's like having a
team whatever your sports analogy is
when you have a team you are not
dependent on a single player to win the
match you always have to have a team to
win a match because the best player in
the world cannot win a team match and
this is what you have so in a portfolio
some strategies will work in some market
regimes and some will not and some will
break even and so on and so forth but
overall when you have about 10
strategies there is always one strategy
that performing better than all of them
and that will lift the portfolio at that
moment in time to learn more about
building portfol always watch this video
and I will see you
[Music]
then
