about seven months ago I created an
indicator called KCC percent it stands
for my name Casey and the percent change
in the closes of every bar the idea
behind the indicator came when I wanted
to create a different profile for me
reversion strategies so this indicator
uses a different method to calculate the
pullback in price on every instrument
from the other mirror version indicator
just like the RSI you can watch that
video over here today I will use the
same indicator KCC percent to build a
mirror version strategy on the Futures
silver market it's an extremely simple
one I'm using the KCC indicator default
so this is the lookbook and the
smoothing four and three so four look
back three smoothing and then the levels
just like the RSI is 30 and 70. now I
have this condition if true so in case
when you're developing the strategy you
want to add any condition here any
filter it could be volatility it could
be Direction anything you like so of
course right currently we're not using
anything so when the KCC indicator is
below the buy level we will buy
and when it is above the cell level we
will sell short of course buy and sell
sure that means we are always in the
market flipping between long and short
and as you can see clearly here so we
are always in the market using this
strategy and if we look at the
performance of the strategy so it's
already making a thousand trades almost
split in the middle I mean not almost it
is split in the middle and making 300 on
average which is very very good if you
are an algo trading masterclass student
then you will receive this as part of
the tools and you can see the silver
requires 65 dollars for round trip for
commission and slippage so three times
65 is around two hundred dollars so 330
is definitely much better than two
hundred dollars now if we look at the
total we are making 356 000
and 81 000 drawdown so again that's
really really good but you might say you
probably optimized this before doing the
video which I did not but also by chance
you could have picked the peak numbers
just randomly but few developer lot of
strategies you will have a built-in bias
because you develop those strategies
some numbers will stick in your head and
this also might happen to me here
because I know those numbers usually get
a good result so in order to fight this
to fight the built-in bias so we need to
test the adjacent variables to this
strategy and here are the settings I'm
using so the lockbox between 2 and 10 I
mean 10 is already long but I will use
it and then the smoothing 2 and 6 and
then the by level between 10 and 40 and
the cell level for the short is between
60 and 90. so all these come up to
2205 combinations so we test them all
and the first thing we do is we filter
so we will not trade anything below a
hundred trades also I'm not using
anything below 200 on average 200 means
that I am getting three times my average
slippage and commission that's really a
safe number of course the more the
better remember the total number of
strategies was 2205
and with this filter we get 689 so 689
divided by 20205
that means 31 of the strategies after
checking all the adjacent parameters are
usable not only profitable but usable
because profitable probably they are 90
profitable but usable because of the
average trade so if I sort by the return
to maximum drawdown this is my custom
Fitness
so we can see here we have 4.4 and on
the lower end we have 0.14 of course
this is not usable so this is what I
mean I have an average trade of more
than 200 I have more than 100 trades and
of course my strategy is profitable
based on my average trade but look at
this drawdown 200 0005. so obviously
this is not a usable strategy so what we
want is at least two because two that
means the total net profit is twice the
maximum drawdown of course we want more
so let's add this filter so greater than
two
and now the number of strategies is 174
and again we bring our calculator so 174
divided by 2205 that's almost eight
percent profitable strategy so if you
are new or a beginner Trader then you
might think this is very low just to let
you know this is extremely high because
if you build
how many strategies and you test them
for robustness usually you get like
point one percent uh robust strategy so
the fact that we are getting almost
eight percent that's still a huge number
and we are comfortably should eliminate
many of these strategies so now out of
these strategies let me filter the top
25 so this is 25 and return to draw
Downs three five seven so let me do
three five one so my three five one that
should give us 25 strategies
and now let me sort to see our
robustness so this is the look back
period
so starting three remember we had two so
t two seems not usable and we went to 10
10 and 9 doesn't exist
and seven is only ones so basically we
are between three and six and between
three and six number four is the most
so then I would say number four is the
best in this column and also it's
adjacent by stable profitable strategies
so if I take four here now let's look at
the second column which is the smoothing
factor if I sort by smoothing we went
from two to six six doesn't exist four
only two and the rest are all good
but two and three are a lot they are up
to here that's more than that's 18
strategies so two and three here are
very very good
and then if we go by the by level
so it's 10 to 40 10 doesn't exist 15
doesn't exist
and two only in twenties
and 3 and 25 so 30 and 35 is the stable
area
and they occupy the most number of
strategies and finally the cell level
so it's between 60 and 90
and after 75 there is nothing so 60 a
lot of 60 65 is also really good
70 and 75. all of them looks really good
between 60 and 75. although the the
focus will be on 60 and 65. so now if I
want to pick a stable region for all for
all of them we start here
let's sort so let's pick four in the
beginning
and then either two or three here
and then 30 or 35 so this is with 35
this is with 35
and these are with 30. so we have four
strategies to match them with the exit
so let's look at those in details so
this one is one thousand trades this is
971. this is making 50 000 more than
this one with lower drawdown and then if
I go to the 4 3 and 30
so we have two of them and both of these
are higher drawdown than this one so
four two performing better than four
three this looks really good now
remember this one 356 640 is not the top
making strategy
so this is what we picked and this is
the most profitable strategy so this is
very close to our original strategy
which is 4 3 30 70. so instead of three
smoothing we are two and instead of 30
buying level we are 35
but we have now a confirmation that what
we picked was not over optimized or was
not the peak and that's the idea so even
at the end if we reach the same values
what we picked is really a stable region
and this should work on many many other
instruments so now we have this let's
look at our Equity curve so it's not the
cleanest Equity curve I mean we are
making money all the time we are going
up and we can see these green dots are
making new highs all the time and so
this is end of April we just made a new
high so this is uh what we suffered in
the beginning a big drawdown and then
there is nothing to talk about here the
maximum loss here is about eighty
thousand dollars which is huge we just
starting here so we need to mitigate
that with other filters this is our
periodical returns we have three losses
2008 2015 and 2020. now remember this
strategy is always in the market so
that's 100 exposure which is not
recommended I mean if this strategy is
part of 25 other strategies then it's
not a problem but if it's part of three
four five strategies then it is a
problem you want to limit your exposure
to the market as much as possible so now
it's the part where the first sentence
remember is if true now you can test
other filters so you can add filters
like volatility Direction patterns you
can add the trailing stop stop loss
profit Target there are many many other
ways to limit your exposure to the
market and of course the simplest one is
the number of bars in trade like I
mentioned if you are an algo Trader
Master Class student you receive this as
one of the tools and here you can see
that the silver
have a range of almost three thousand
dollars per day so this means the silver
e-mini Futures contracts on average move
three thousand dollars per day that
means if we put these stop loss or the
profit Target at three thousand dollars
most likely we will hit it and then we
can play with these so if we put them at
different numbers we can make sure that
we hit one and not the other and this is
what I did I put the profit Target at
three thousand dollars and the stop loss
at six thousand dollars so most likely
we will hit the profit Target but we
don't hit the stop loss and then I added
the exit after number of days which is
10. so these act as floor and ceiling
and this act as time exit so this way we
are protected that we are not always in
the market and then if we compile this
we get this strategy so it's 272
thousand dollars with forty six thousand
dollars in a drawdown so we definitely
reduce our drawdown to almost half but
of course we also lost a lot of the
profits and that's a compromise that you
have to decide if you want to make more
money and assume bigger drawdown or you
want to reduce your drawdown and accept
making less money but now this is our
curve it looks much better than before
and if we see it with the drawdown
remember the first strategy we had
eighty thousand dollars in the beginning
and now the maximum is about 40 which
happens here when you have a lot of
money a lot of profits already happened
and then the trade analysis is now again
we are split in the middle for long and
short and the average trade went up so
416 but we're making less trades and the
periodical analysis one big loss in a
year and then medium and then nothing to
speak about but the distribution is
different and what happens with this
strategy is it looks like it's getting
better you can see how we are at 52 in
2017 58 61 62 66 so you can see how the
trajectory is up since 2017. that means
the edge is getting better somehow and
it's either we picked it up at the right
time or at the end I don't know but so
far this looks very very promising we
try to be simple with our development
and in this case we hit the gold mine
because it's an extremely simple
strategy and using extremely simple
exits no filters in this strategy to
learn more make sure to watch this video
and I will see you then
[Music]
thank you
[Music]
