[Music]
imagine spending an hour with the
world's greatest Traders imagine
learning from their experiences their
successes and their failures imagine no
more welcome to top Traders unplugged
the place where you can learn from the
best hedge fund managers in the world so
you can take your manager due diligence
or investment career to the next level
before we begin today's conversation
remember to keep two things in mind all
the discussion we will have about
investment performance is about the past
and past performance does not guarantee
or even infer anything about future
performance also understand that there's
a significant risk of financial loss
with all investment strategies and you
need to request and understand the
specific risks from the investment
manager about their product before you
make investment decisions here's your
host veteran hedge fund manager Neils
costr
Larson welcome or welcome back to this
week's edition of the systematic
investment series with Mark rinsky and I
Neil casson where each week we take the
Pulse of the global market through the
lens of rules based investor mark it is
great to be back with you this week how
are you doing is Autumn setting in where
you are Autumn is starting to set in uh
trees are starting to just turn a little
bit of color on some maple trees so this
is a great time of year to be in New
England I had a walk this morning around
8:00 and you could really feel the the
the crispness of the air but it wasn't
didn't feel cold and it was nice and
sunny so I have to say that's certainly
one of my favorite times of of the year
year we're going to be talking about
lots of different things as usual but as
always I'd love to hear since we last
spoke um kind of what's been on your
radar that you might find really
interesting at the moment which has
nothing to do with what we're going to
be talking about later I imagine sure
took a little vacation in in August uh
so I was out at the uh filmont Scout
ranch in New Mexico which is always a
great area and it's uh great to clear
your head up in the up in the mountains
but one of the area I've been working on
a little bit is is to is thinking about
private Equity uh a friend of mine uh
Randy Cohen is a professor at uh Harvard
Business School is working on uh private
Equity index replication which is
actually a really tough problem and it's
interesting this is that we've had
replication for a lot of hedge fund
strategies including manage Futures and
now people are saying it's like can we
do this for private equity and make
something that this you know we'll say
illiquid can we make a liquid
alternative and it opens up a Pandora's
box of a lot of Quant issues and a lot
of replication issues and uh it's an
interesting
problem oh yeah no I I just just the
thought of that I would say is is
certainly interesting but it it's also a
little bit uh scary in my mind because I
think and not specifically about this
but I do think that there is this
tendency that um Financial Engineers
will come in and take something that is
definitely IL liquid and by way of
matching making it liquid which of
course it it isn't but the perception is
that you can do these things and uh and
so we'll see it'll be interesting uh if
if if I was G to say tongue and Chic for
both good and bad never underestimate
the ability of a Quant engineer to to
try to replicate something or try to try
to see if we could make it into
laboratory a little bit better
yes of course absolutely you know um we
were talking about this just before we
press record um and I was saying to you
that what kind of was on my mind uh this
week was inspired by something I read
just this morning so it hasn't really
been on my mind as such but I found it
interesting and I wanted just to mention
it to you and to our listeners um and
that was this news that wayo Robo taxes
apparently are doing now 100,000 rides a
week that is
without a driver and I was I have to say
I was kind of shocked by the number I
didn't expect that it was being used by
that many people yet and of course this
is still the early day so uh I have a
feeling that it may uh go quickly but at
the same time I think when I think about
these robotex is it does align and and
and and follow to a topic you and I are
going to be talking about later and I
noticed in your notes that you actually
mention
uh these Robo taxes as uh as something
that is relevant for the discussion even
though it's about Trend following so
can't wait to dig into that but uh we're
not quite there uh Mark we need to go
through a few more topics we always
do such a trend following update um you
know what so so far I would say this
week overall has been fairly quiet uh uh
on the Western Front as they say and I
suspect still that most of the
performance is coming from sectors like
fixed income precious metals there'll be
some uh select markets that are hurting
Trend followers at the moment like sugar
which suddenly has gone on a little bit
of a a tear um so some strong gains
against the longer term downtrend um
some of the grains as well have had a
bit of an upwards correction which
wouldn't have been good for for Trend
followers coffee uh has been strong and
that on the other hand has been
benefiting trend followers I think um at
least most I I suspect are still long in
that uh my own Trend barometer yesterday
finished at 45 so that's pretty neutral
but looking at the numbers it's not
looking too bad so far in in September
uh these numbers are as of wedding day
but I suspect yesterday was a positive
month as well um but as of yesterday as
of wedding day beta 50 was up 1.18% in
September up 3.92% for the year sck CTA
up about 1 % up 2.42% for the year the
trend index uh up 1.42% up
2.72% and the St genen short-term
Traders index up 82 basis points up 30
basis points so far this year Equity is
also doing well this uh month msci World
Up 77 basis points up 16.42% so far uh
this year S&P Global developed Sovereign
Bond index up 1% so far in September up
2.45% for the year and the s& P 500
total return up 1.16% so far up almost
20% year-to date any any observations
about Trend following returns is since
we last spoke well I think the one thing
that you sent me an article the other
day about uh what trend following could
do in the in the not so distant future
and I think that the focus is going to
be you know macro Trends macro Trends
macro trends that the
macro
environment those Trends will drive
price trends and so we really are going
to be focused in on the on the
environment that we live in and whether
it's going to be a slow growth no growth
what's the direction and interest rates
and that's going to be the driver of of
all of the trend uh performance between
now and the end of the year and in early
half of
2025 yeah no I agree I mean it does feel
like um because there's so much going on
on the macro side and on the
geopolitical side that you would see
some uh at some point some really
sustained uh moves although it's not
like it's been a boring year so far U
but it's just been sort of dominated by
a few other things um and of course it's
also been hurt to some extent um because
of the reversals uh led to the uh carry
uh onwi um and maybe I should mention
actually that um Allan and I sat down
with uh another host uh on the show
Kevin C who is of course one of the
authors of the book uh the rise of carry
and that was written five years ago so
we sat down last week um to record an
episode that's going to come out on
Wednesday to see where the thinking is
about Carrie um now five years on and
after what we saw happening in Japan uh
it's a fascinating uh conversation um so
I hopefully uh everyone will tune in and
see what um what Kevin feel they have
learned uh on this topic uh in the years
that has passed since they wrote the
book and that's been a really important
topic overall because we do know that a
lot of uh ctas have mixed Trend
following with carry so how because
they're uncorrelated how do you blend
the two of those together to come up
with a better strategy and then then
then you have to think about well what
are the periods of risk on riskof
because that's what drives that you know
low correlation or negative correlation
when we have a risk on environment is
going to be very good for carry when
we're in Risk off that should be very
good for Trend following and then
finally I think the the big issue is is
that there's for something that's
relatively simple there's a tremendous
amount of uncertainty surrounding carry
because we never really know how large
it is so so people have talked of
hundreds of billions some people talked
about trillions some have talked about
okay is it active TR carry that are very
short term is it the we'll call it Mega
carry between long-term interest rates
or long-term performance across
countries so so that I think there's a
lot of misnomers about
carrye indeed and and actually you could
say that it's almost something that is
that that feeds through society as a
whole not just financial markets you
think about soort of the principle of
carry um and where in a sense and it
also certainly ties to Trend following
because most investors prefer nothing
happens really or nothing happening and
at the same time they can earn a little
bit of money every day so we know that's
the the challenge that um that we as
Trend followers have in compelling them
to look at something that actually makes
money when markets are are not static or
stable but what you said about carry
also nicely feeds into our first topic
today uh which is about the FED because
um you could say that the fed and other
central banks have really been
responsible for the rise of the carry
regime by the way they have um you know
done their uh monetary policies uh for
the last few decades and really are at
the center of of of carry so um but
anyways you you wanted to talk about the
FED uh and the expectation and the
anxieties and so on and so forth so
let's dive into that let's rip off the
Band-Aid I sort of say that with the FED
making their announcement on a 50 basis
point cut on Wednesday and here we are
on on at the end of the week it's
virtually impossible for us not to say
something about about the FED uh and and
I I think that what was really uh
amazing when you take a step back uh and
after you sort of get done reading all
of the apologists for why 50 basis
points make sense what was the objective
of the FED for the last more than the
last decade it's forward guidance can we
give a clear
indication of what our policies will be
what we will do so that you can be able
to then plan accordingly and if and if
uh businesses and investors can plan
better because they have an idea of what
the direction of fed policy will be well
then you're not going to get distortions
and you're not going to get up upheavals
in the
markets the day before the the Wednesday
announcement it was almost a a 5050
chance between there being a 50 basis
point and a 25 basis point C which is
extremely odd usually the few days
before the FED announcement we're about
90 95% certain what the FED is going to
do so yeah had actually maximum
uncertainty even the day before day
of second is is that what happened is
this is that you had a lot of the
economists not the market P
practitioners who are saying that they
cut was only going to be 25 basis points
so you have that we'll say established
economists who were at 25 the market
itself was you know evenly distributed
between 25 and 50 so you see that the
actual announcement comes up you say 50
basis point is a big move and usually as
an indic
indication that we're having some kind
of problem that we've that we're
starting to have to have a major
reversal in in policy and lo and behold
there wasn't really a strong reaction on
Wednesday there was a positive reaction
on Thursday you know in the stock
markets around around the globe but then
you look at uh the dollar did not set a
new low you look at the 10year and
30-year uh bond prices they actually
fell so here you had a 50 basis point
cut and longer term bomb Bond investors
have said no we really actually think
that I want to try to sell bonds I don't
want to hold bonds which is the exact
opposite of what you might
expect and then you look at actual
policy is is is it uh I I sort of half
joke and I'll say this tongue and cheek
whatever happened to the average
inflation Target and so so it seems as
though that we're still not at 2% we're
above but we sort of said that it's time
to switch let's worry about uh the the
real economy but then if you look at the
GDP now forecast which is from the
Atlanta Fed so it's a nowcast and they
compare compare it against Blue Chip
forecast they're saying that growth
should be in the next quarter up around
3% which is much higher than the Blue
Chip forecast so the nowcast of taking
the most recent data is saying we're
actually going to have stronger growth
than what we expected going forward yet
the FED cut 50 basis points and finally
what you sort of say like yes we do know
that there's a there's a weakening in
the labor market uh there's been a lot a
major Revision in in employment numbers
because of the way they count that but
it doesn't seem as though that we're in
a a we'll call it a difficult period or
we on the precipice of of falling into
recession so so the whole action of the
FED seems
odd now I think it's important to say
like oh that's interesting and it
provides a little bit of area for
discussion but what do systematic
managers how do we sort of perceive or
how do we think about this uh and and
that's the important part for I think
for our podcast this is that uh a
systematic manager and I'll s of say
that's we'll say Quant and Trend
followers that they're always interested
in what we call postevent
Behavior we don't care about what the
FED may do as a forecast generally what
we're only interested in and once you
take an action or there is an event what
happens afterwards and how can we
exploit that and in some senses is it uh
we can go back and then look at past 50
basis point events and say here's what
we think should happen we could say
here's the count but unfortunately we
don't have a lot of numbers for that
count it's not a big sample size but you
know the reason why you want to be a
trend follower is is that you say like I
don't have a forecast of whether the FED
is going to be at 25 or 50 what I do
know is is that I can sort of follow
what happens post event and if there's
an adjustment in
portfolios driven by investors I'll take
advantage of that adjustment period post
event and and then we need to look at
how that postevent plays out across
markets so what happens to the dollars
what happens to oil what happens to
stock indes what happens to fixed income
so I want to be Diversified so that I
could sort of say that if there are
secondary effects across a wide range of
markets I could still be able to exploit
those yeah I mean just for maybe for new
listeners we obviously don't want to
make it sound like that we actually go
in and make some analysis specifically
on what moved the market on the day
after the two days after but I think
what you're saying is that our systems
will automatically take this into
account because they're sampling uh you
know a new data set that includes the
day I the price move uh post the uh the
event now it will take some time uh for
sure for that to manifest in any change
in Signal um but it's all part of the
process right and as you say we don't
need to worry or speculate about what uh
the FED uh will or will not do um but
we're just going to react to whatever
the markets which are again the voting
the real voting machine how the market
interprets that uh that news right and
and I think that a lot of times is is
that uh uh one thing I try to be careful
I was having this discussion the other
day I have to separate uh you know what
uh when I look at a market event in
three things there's what I think they
should have done okay there's so that's
my personal opinion this is it you know
I could sort of say they're either wrong
or they're right I then have to think
about well what is actually the
perception of the market on whether they
think this uh activity or this uh policy
uh change is wrong right but then the
third is is to say is that well what is
my reaction to whatever the event
abstracting from what I think the market
you know forecast versus what I might
think and just say what is the market
going to tell me in prices and how do I
then exploit that and either that that
ex I can exploit it because there's
going to be continuation of a trend
there's going to be a reversal of trend
or there's going to be some kind of mean
reverse or
Divergence you know what linking to the
fact that the FED caught and cut
substantially um in in my mind at least
and also the fact that you know other
central banks have changed their uh
rates recently most of them to the
downside B boj of course to the upside I
I couldn't help noticing uh a comment
which actually ties back to the speech
that two of the Central Bank uh Chiefs
did at Jackson Hall but we know
whatever happened this week was probably
in the cards uh even when Jackson Hall
um was being held in in August so I'd
like to just read you a couple of
paragraphs from David Dred a good friend
of the podcast and guest on the podcast
in the past um he does a a monthly uh
report he post for free on LinkedIn uh
and it's definitely recommended to to
read it he he writes about the speech uh
from Powell at the Jackson Hall he
summarizes this way he says the gist is
we can all rest assured that they have
this price stability AKA inflation
problem that they never saw coming and
certainly had no role in causing under
control and they will shortly be turning
their focus to the other leg of the duel
mandate employment it is curious how
their own uh extreme policies like Zer
QE fate um which were explic itly
targeted at generating inflation are
never attributed as having a role in the
subsequent inflation and yet their
latest rounds of policies are giving all
the credit for doing away with something
that they had duped as transitory prior
to deciding they better do something
about it he then goes on to take a
little bit of a a swipe at the governor
of the bank of England Bailey he says
Governor Bailey's AI prompter took the
instructions per blaming the failure to
achieve their mandate on exogenous
events to a new level just a quick check
on the word count for covid pandemic
Ukraine Russia shocks coming in at no
less than 50 instances to be clear it
wasn't their fault but now their
policies have restored order and we're
and we can all rest easy everything is
back on path and they are in total
control and he quotes him actually
Bailey by where where Bailey has said in
the speech infl expectations appear to
be better anchored which I put down in
good part to the presence of independent
central banks with clear mandates and
nominal anchors usually in the form of
inflation
targets I thought that was brilliant um
because it's funny how they forget uh
what they what role they played in in
all of this I have to say when you think
about it is is that uh theim TB always
talked about uh you know in in many of
his books about you have to have skin in
the game okay and when you think about
it is is is that uh the central Bankers
often don't have skin in the game you
know can't really lose their job because
they're appointed for a long periods of
time is that they can always talk their
way out of uh you know different issues
uh but they don't have money at risk and
I think the big difference between
Traders and fed officials is that we
constantly have SK skin in the game and
our skin in the game is is that if we
don't perform well then you know people
are going to vote with their feet take
money out of out of funds go find
somebody else to manage and then
basically you know ostracize you into
yesterday's news because they say that
they we're not going to follow whatever
your your views
are you know what Mark I'm not done I've
not looked this up but I wonder how many
times has a central bank caught by 50
basis points at the same time as the
equity markets being at new all-time
highs I think that must be close to a
first if not a first and and that's
really a telling point because at some
sense is that if you have the stock
market and other uh at alltime highs and
and we'll sort of say that the stock
market is forms forward expectations
about the market albe it sometimes when
they change it could change fairly
rapidly but we're not sort of saying
that the stock market is telling us that
we've got a problem in the latter half
of this year or next year you know we're
not uh we're sort of saying that
financial markets if anything the
volatility has has moved down we had the
carry problem in August but you know
volatility is is not high uncertainty is
not high so uh it seems to be that this
is uh that 50 basis points would be sort
of
rash now you could sort of say is is it
uh what was the policy that got us to
you know above 5% in the first place but
this seems a little rash good Stu let's
move on to another topic uh I know in
the past we've talked about a framework
you called vuka and now you came up with
another framework which I'm not entirely
sure how to pronounce capital K small U
and then a capital u um I have no idea
uh you know so can you help me here well
this is the the the kuu framew work and
this is I didn't come up with this
there's a group out of the Warton School
came up with this you know probably
about a decade ago uh but I think it's a
variation on my theme of vuka but it's
another way to also sort of frame
different problems and and when you
think of
kuu there's what is known what is
unknown and then what is
unknowable and when you think about on a
lot of what we do you should always sort
of frame this is as a what do I actually
know and so what I know is what I can
count okay those would be objective uh
measures so say if I count in the past
this number of events I could figure out
the probabilities going on then there's
what is unknown uh so you know what
can't I handicap so those are the things
that I should avoid in some sense
because I don't have a way to
objectively measure and then we'll sort
of say there's the unknowable which you
say like well that's why I have to
diversify because if there's something
unknowable well that's those are the
issues that I gota sort of uh try to
make sure I avoid and we'll sort of say
when we look forward is is that okay
we've got an election coming up in the
United States this this is that the
event is known but we don't know but the
outcome is unknown but it is it's not
unknowable because we will have resolu
ution at some point and so what we
should see and and I think what you'll
sort of see is right around that
election date you're going to see
heightened volatility because that's
when uncertainty is going to be resolved
okay uh we'll sort of say the revisions
and unemployment that we saw was
something that was unknowable we know
that there are revisions occur we didn't
expect that it was going to be a
revision of a million uh jobs so but now
we have to sort of say how do we
incorporate that so what you'd say is
what is knowable could be said what are
the trends what is unknown is what will
the markets do in the future and uh and
what is unknowable is just uh the fact
that sometimes you have to follow prices
because there is no way to handicap the
future of these unknowable
events yeah no absolutely we've learned
something new Mark a new framework to
add to the library can't wait for the
next one and I think that uh this is
really important when even when you talk
about the idea of passive investing
index investing uh active investing it's
sort of say like well if you think about
well what is known or can can you pick
managers that can be able to have better
knowledge which is a you know are they
ignorant or no uh do they have strong
knowledge about an issue or what is the
amount that's unknown or
unknowable and if you fall into the camp
that there's a lot more unknowable
information and there's a lot more
Unknown about the world then you
probably want to be more of a passive
investor and she want to be more of an
indexer or or or if I can interrupt here
I for me when I when I heard you talk
about it it it actually is not so much
about whether it's passive or active as
such although it plays a role it's
actually the diversification that comes
down to to in my mind right that the the
one thing that kind of helps on all
fronts with this is just being
Diversified and I mean truly Diversified
not a portfolio of a 100 different
stocks but but a portfolio like a trend
falling portfolio of a 100 different
markets essentially right and and that's
uh when you use this kuu framework what
it really tells you is to said okay we
want to increase our positions or tilt
on what we think is knowable and that
could be a trend it could be that you
have an information Advantage but
because we say that there's three parts
of this
framework we say the known we we we know
we'll take a little bit extra risk yet
but then there's the unknown and
unknowable and we'll say that's the
reason why you have to stay Diversified
and diversification means across asset
classes and also means go long and short
because you know just being long only
may not be enough because when we say
that for
example uh the correlation between
stocks and bonds is positive well then
if you're long then that's not going to
Long only that's not going to help you
so so when you think about it is is is
that uh uh systematic managers Trend
followers who focus on both long and
short and maximize the set of markets
that they are asset classes that they
diversify over are being able to best
deal with what is unknown and
unknowable yeah which actually takes us
very nicely into your third topic I
think you've planned
this oh um which I think is a really
really important uh topic um and and you
wrote in your headline algo anxiety and
algo anxi Society it still exists with
AI and then so talk us through these
things I have some comments and and and
analogies as we talked about early on in
in this conversation so let's dive into
all of this this is important stuff a
lot of this was driven by an article
that was uh posted in the Ft this week
and they talked about that uh that
there's uh elgo anxiety with AI uh and
I'll talk about how they actually
measure that in just a second but what
it it sort of let jumped out at me was
something that I wrote about in my blog
you know 10 years ago where where the
thought that there was a lot of algo
avoidance and anxiety and the basic
premises of avoidance was this is that
when they've tested different people and
they found out for example even a
weather forecasts this is that if their
human is making a forecast they say like
okay makes sense you know um let's check
on whether they're they're a good
forecaster or not and then so we so we
can measure their success of this these
human forecasts then we had you know
sort of let's say algo driven forecast
and what you found that that people
actually avoided sort of an algod driven
forecast even though it might do better
than the human-based
forecast so now let's move the uh move
10 years forward what they found this is
that they looked at Ai and so they sort
of said like well let's look at what is
the reaction to some investors to some
new bit of information and then we say
that okay that new bit of information
was driven by a human forecaster then
we'll say it was driven by sort of uh
you know some chat gbt or AI forecast
and then they'll say what was the
combination and let's look at the
response response time and and the size
of the response what they found that is
that for those forecasts that were AI
generated investors were a little bit
slower at responding to that new bit of
information than if it was generated by
a human so it's almost as though that I
hear what you're telling me as an algo I
hear what AI is telling me but I'm a
little hesitant to actually jump in and
react as quickly as if somebody told me
that same information or made made that
forecast you know it's it's funny
because um I I certainly have felt this
um anxiety for for uh for Trend
following on the basis that people felt
that there was kind of no control and it
was an it was a computer and so on and
so forth which of course couldn't be
further from the truth uh really really
um because it's the computer is really
only there to to implement the strategy
that's developed by humans but I feel
often with investors that there is kind
of an
underlying assumption that something
sooner or later will go wrong and it's
all going to be the system's fault so to
speak so something happens in the
markets and the system uh is caught on
the wrong side and and it's being blamed
right but then when I think about this
being a human I and and I have no way of
proving this but I I kind of feel that
if a discretionary manager came and
after having lost a lot of money from an
event that would be rare um but
certainly uh you know probable but rare
then the excuse is often well well you
know from the investors to to maybe
justify that it was okay for you to lose
that money because there was no way you
could have known that like if there was
some way that the computer should have
known it right I feel there is this
little tendency that the the humans we
get kind of a we get off a more more
lightly uh because clearly we could not
have known uh that the boj would hike
rates uh and and and the carry trade
would be unwind well of course we knew
they're going to hike rates you know so
the computer is
obviously not in the no I understand
that that that do it at least the most
Trend followers they don't we don't
allow our computers to read the
newspapers and all of that stuff right
but anyway that's kind of how I I feel
the difference but it um but it does
take us back to this discussion about
driverless cars right um you know how
would we feel even if someone could show
us a statistic that these driver Rob
Robo taxis have had fewer accidents than
than um taxis that has humans in it
would we still be hesitant to jump into
a driverless taxi I know I would be for
sure so uh so my daughter and I even
heard at some point mark that they were
talking about that maybe AI at some
point we don't even need pilots on the
planes anymore because it's on autopilot
for the most time in most part anyways
and I know for sure that I wouldn't want
to go on a plane without Pilots either
so I don't know what do you think about
this so my daughter lives in Beijing and
so she's taking a driverless taxis and
and S of the first time was a little
off-putting but I think she's uh you
know used to it I I haven't asked how
many times since she's done it but it's
amazing is is that as humans we're
willing to forgive other
humans we're
unforgiving with respect to system
and and models so so we you know if if
let's say a manager as you talked about
let say fails he said like well okay
let's hear the reason he could he could
give some excuses we say like okay don't
do that again uh a model can't give
excuses it will just it'll just say this
is my forecast uh here's chances of me
being successful here's my you know uh
percentage corrector my success rate and
then it it is what it is it won't give
an excuse and uh we love to hear excuses
we love to engage in
forgiveness uh and we don't trust models
so uh so I think that just from all of
my experiences is
that people say do you follow you'll go
into a meeting they say well do you
follow the model you say yes we follow
the model and then do you Tinker with
the model no we don't really Tinker with
the model but then at the same time you
say like but if you're look like you're
driving and you're going to hit a brick
wall are you going to change something
and generally you're going to have to
say well yes we we have a we have a
mechanism that someone could have an
override if necessary if there is this
oneoff event we can be able to stop from
uh from making a
mistake now surprisingly especially with
Trend following is is that when you
think that there's this one-off
situation that in reality is that you
usually is is that that following the
models in generally would be better off
than actually turning the model off or
reversing what the model told you to
do yeah I mean there were actually and
this is public knowledge um there were
quite a few managers who um stepped in
during covid during that month of March
of 2020 uh to override the models they
say as far as I understand this was done
for risk management purposes um I don't
know if it was worse or or or better to
uh toh just have left the models do the
job of course um uh at at at done we we
don't uh do things like that we do let
the models run but uh but it doesn't
mean we don't monitor things um but we
have to kind of uh allow the models to
do their job I mean we've talked many
many times on the podcast about you know
back testing and I think we may talk a
little bit about this as well later on
today um but the thing is is a back test
is worth very little if you Tinker with
your um with your model and override it
then you can't really use a back test
because how would you have to handle
certain situations in the past uh so it
is interesting and and and I think that
this is uh this gives back to in general
and the reason why we have these
podcasts to begin with is this is it I
will probably sort of say that the
number one flaw with systematic and
Trend f following managers in general is
that managers are not very good about
explaining what they do and so the
corollary to the study that was uh
mentioned uh before they said that if
people better understand AI then they
had more confidence okay surprisingly
they also found that women have more
confidence in AI than uh than than the
human uh so so they they broke it down
into a little bit more detail but the
argument would be is this is that we
probably said the hold back for
systematic and Trend following is
managers still don't do a very good job
of explaining what they do part of it is
is to say well it's not easy sometimes
and we'll sort of say people don't want
to give away all of their secrets and
I'll also say on the other hand you know
there's the sender of the message which
could do better but then there's the
receiver of the message the investors
are not very good about understanding
what managers do I don't think that they
often ask good questions uh about why a
model should do well or not well and I
think fundamentally you know I sort of
say like the the key focus is always uh
when will your model do
well and when will it do
poorly and why and so the answer for
example can't be that if you're a trend
follower that you say well I do well
when there's Trends because that's
tological so you have to be able to say
what are the environmental factors that
are necessary or sufficient to be able
to drive positive return performance
that doesn't mean it happens all the
time but you have to be able to
articulate you know what are these
periods when you're going to do well or
not well and and I think that that still
requires a lot of fundamental research
to be able to say what are exogenous
factors outside of just price that might
lend itself to better Trend following
Behavior no I I get that uh Mark
um but I will say and I don't mean to
step on anyone's toes when I say that I
mean the concept of trend following I
think is generally well understood
pretty easy to explain I do feel
sometimes and I kind of understand why
they need to go but I do feel that
sometimes people want to know more than
that that really is necessary if you
know what I mean I mean it's almost like
okay but are you using a 20-day or a
30-day uh volatility flaw for example
okay of course you can you can answer
the question but how on Earth will that
actually help that investor understand
anything about the future performance it
won't so I feel sometimes that some of
the questions we do get they may look
good in a due diligence report that oh
yeah but I asked this question I really
went into detail I look what all the
information I got but how are you going
to translate that into something
meaningful because as soon as there's
negative performance you're going to get
all the usual questions anyway right but
I do think that there is a bit of a
disconnect in terms of what uh investors
think they need to know and what is
actually really relevant for them um so
to speak and maybe that's also what you
uh uh you alluded to um but just going
back to one thing just so I don't forget
it we talked about humans versus um you
know alos right one thing I do think is
a real advantage of the uh systematic
approach I don't like the word algo by
the way it sounds fancy but it's just
you know we just use rules right it's a
rules based approach is of course the
fact that one of the biases um that we
as humans have and there are a few of
them that obviously are important but
one of them like anchoring meaning that
people often expect something that has
happened in the past and what I think
the strength of a rules-based approach a
a systematic disciplined rules based
approach where we don't have any
expectations is the fact that we will go
with a market move or a trend for as
long as it will take us even if it's
never taken even even if it's never done
this before like I guess a simple
example would just be when interest
rates came down to 2% a few years ago or
maybe a long time ago now people were
saying well surely 10 year notes are not
going to go lower than that and lo and
behold they went a lot lower and in
Europe we even had negative interest rat
something that people had not I think uh
expected so that's where I think the the
difference uh lie the advantage of a
discretionary trade of course is that
they can anticipate which a model can't
do and and if they're very good at that
that has value of course um but it's um
and and actually the combination might
be a good thing who knows right
systematic managers have to do a better
job of explaining what they do at the
same time and I'll agree with your point
is that that the bar that's set by
investors is much higher for systematic
managers than a discretionary manager
because there will be say like this is
that yes you will have these discussions
where people say what exactly is the you
know method of trend what's the look
back period what what have you done this
way how have you tested this what have
you looked at this and and if you don't
do that to a discretionary manager where
you say like okay well tell me exactly
what is the process you go to pick your
choice of Investments you know every
time and how do you do that and what did
you look at next and what were the
inputs so so I think the bar is high so
I think that this is a more nuanced
discussion is this is that you'd say
it's not the specifics but why do you do
what you do so for example is is it you
if you're intermediate Trend follower
what are you trying to capture as
opposed to short-term or very long- term
okay what are you trying to capture with
your through diversification you know
what are the factors that might lead to
you to have better performance versus
poor
performance and I think that this is
sort of we'll call it the uh you know
analysis or uh as I call it there's a
difference between performance
attribution and contribution this is
that the contribution is saying it's
like well I made money you know this
amount of money in the cotton Market I
made this money and crude oil what we're
talking about is is it you know is the
attribution so why did you make money in
the in the crude oil Market why did you
make money in bond market and what were
the conditions that allowed you to do
that and then and then here's the model
that allowed me to exploit those
conditions there's another challenge
Mark in in all of this and that is
that even if we do explain well what we
do uh um and we probably would also uh
explain why we believe that usually that
would be based on evidence on facts on
track records some longer than others
the other thing I think as managers you
are faced with and maybe this is normal
but it certainly is a real Challenge and
that is that those people that we are
explaining it to may have a particular
belief or a bias that just doesn't agree
with what we present even if we have the
evidence right so some people might
think that well your Trend speed should
be 3 months that's the best right well
based on what evidence uh would you say
that or you have to trade 500 markets
that must be better than trading 100
markets right um so I think it's a
challenge I think managers um yeah I
think we have a lot of um challenges in
in getting our our um message uh AC
[Music]
cross well we got so many topics uh I'm
almost going to suggest that you pick a
few we got um something about the market
efficiency the that that Alan and I uh
touched on a little bit uh last week we
have um the three C's um we have memory
of a bare Market uh we have uh
overreactions and Market uh beliefs I
guess and we had uh also something that
actually where I wanted to comment a
little bit which was something about the
SG index and picking manag anyway tell
me where you want to go I'm open well
there's there's three things that I that
I think are most timely right now and
and one is is is that this idea of the
three C's then I want to talk a little
bit about effic market efficiency and
then and we finally end up with Market
memory because these are all tied
together and the three C's that I
focusing on is is say like what is
market
connectedness what are the correlations
and what's the potential for contagion
and and the work that I've been doing
and with some good friends you know up
the road for me up in Vienna is that
we're looking at uh Network
design and thinking of the market as a
set of uh as a complex Network and by a
complex Network you could think of each
market as a node on a network and then
connected with other markets and so
that's the connectedness and this could
either be
through the fact that they're clustered
together it could be that their
connectedness because of common uh you
know commonness across the Traders there
could be connectedness based on you know
similar events and the connectedness
then leads to correlations and then the
correlations because those change over
time are fairly Dynamic can lead to
Contagion
and what you have to think about when
you build portfolios is always is is
that uh we spend all of our time
thinking about the Divergence uh or
we'll call it
diversification when in all uh when in
reality we should also think about how
are markets connected how are they
clustered what is the network of markets
and how will they behave at times
because what you could sort of say that
the behavior of one market will spill
over to another and that's an
opportunity for
exploitation a perfect example is this
is that so we had the FED announcement
so you you say like okay we know that's
going to have an impact on the stock
market we expect that it's going to have
uh impact on the bond market but you
also have to think about well what is it
going to be the impact on the dollar how
does the Dollar then feed back onto
other stock indices how does the Dollar
then couldn't be able to drive or may
have a a causal relationship with uh
crude oil how is the dollar also going
to have a spillover for Commodities and
so uh we always think of the the idea
that we want to try to avoid
connectedness through
diversification but I think that there's
also ways and I think the really good
managers also think about how they can
exploit connectedness because one market
reaction could then lead to a spill over
over after a short delay to another
market and I think that if you can be
able to think about the
crosscorrelations the cross Trends the
relationships across Market where you
know a move and fixed income will spill
over into something else or the move in
equity will spill over to something else
is that the direction of causality may
cause spillovers in other markets that
this is really important if you want us
go to the next level of playing
diversification but offensively as
opposed to just
defensively but that that is some kind
of factor analysis would that be correct
yeah now there there have been people
who have uh looked at factor analysis
this is that there's also work that's
been done it's a little bit older but
it's a little bit obscure on on uh
variance decomposition where we could
sort of say like well how much to
markets uh uh a market shock in one
market leads to Market reaction in other
markets and how much do they then move
back and forth so if you have a shock in
stocks that should tell us something or
we should be able to decompose a shock
and stocks on what it will on the impact
on other
markets and if we can know the direction
of causality from one set of markets to
another that that's really going to help
us and how we can build portfolios or
where there is going to be risk or where
there could be potential
opportunities I mean I can see it within
a sector right of course you can have a
a common factor that certainly can have
an effect I think as soon as you go
outside uh the the the sector itself I
think there are relatively few sectors
where you can have high confidence in
any kind of reaction pattern frankly I
mean of course you would think that
within the financial sectors that that
there there should be some but as soon
as you move into some of the Commodities
I think
it's maybe maybe may even with gold um
May maybe oil does have a a stronger
link I'm I'm not sure but I I get your
point I think it is relevant but on the
other hand I I also sometime think that
we can make things too complicated and
think that we can kind of um have a
really strong sense
and and and and confidence in how how
things will play out but I think the
strength of trend following is the fact
that we don't really rely very heavily
on knowing how things will play out does
that make sense no and I I think that
you're showing a little elgo anxiety
there now okay I I do think that this is
the challenge is is that you don't want
to over comp uh you know make this
overly
complex but at the same time as is we do
know that markets trade in clusters so
we know that there's a base metal
clustered and that's probably going to
be very much driven by the business
cycle you know precious metals is a
different cluster than base Metals but
then we also find that some of the you
know precious metals also move between
the precious metal clust cluster and the
base metal cluster that the two of them
sometimes can go back and forth and
understanding how that relationship
might exist or how it may play out is
important uh another cluster would be is
is we know there's a cluster in energy
markets but at the same time we know
that shocks in the energy Market will
have a spillover effect into the real
economy and other sectors you know uh so
so how do we look at this is as a more
complex
Network yeah and for those who don't
want to get down to the 3C analysis they
can always stick with the 4 C's which
are cot Clarity color and carrot
according to my wife there you go so now
the reason why that you know this is all
tied to also efficiency because I think
that uh I know Allan talked a little bit
about Cliff asnes as his View and and
and I think that I try probably take a
little bit more Nuance view is is that
he talked about that you know social
media is driving uh markets to be less
efficient and that there's more
gamesmanship I probably take the view as
is that that you have to think of
efficiency as that it's a that it's
fairly Dynamic there will be periods of
time when markets are more efficient and
there periods are less efficient some
markets are more efficient than other
markets and I think that a uh area that
has been
understudied this is that was is that
Andy low came up with the idea of
adaptive Market hypothesis and so so
said that this is a different way of
think about market
efficiency you wrote a book on it I
think it was very good but a lot of
people haven't gravitated towards that
but in some senses is that if you're a
trend follower you really believe in an
Adaptive markets hypothesis is that
markets is sort of like it uh efficiency
evolves over time and because it's an
evolutionary process then there could be
Trends in markets and and different
markets will vary on their efficiency
based on liquidity how difficult it is
to Value whether there are more hedgers
or speculators in the market uh how many
people are actually following the market
what is the en economic environment in
the business cycle at a given time and
so I think that we need to sort of think
of this as as as much more Dynamic and
so I can't really sort of say that
markets are more or less efficient at
any given point in time time other than
the fact that this is a dynamic
concept yeah and and actually I would
say when I interviewed Andrew low a few
years ago about this um you know he
basically just said yeah I mean markets
are efficient but not all the time so
there will be these periods of time
where you see these big moves that we
call Trends and and that's uh completely
to be expected and it is surprising this
is that that there are good ideas that
some sometimes if you want to say that
there's memes and and research ideas
some memes are are you know take hold of
people other others don't and this one I
think has been
underutilized yeah true true true true
um well next Mark have few minutes well
the one thing I guess is is that was
driven by a comic I saw last month in
the summer and uh I think it was in Old
New Yorker comic uh so they have an
older gentleman in a suit you know
leaning back smoking a cigar you look
like an oldtime Wall Street and then
they had a bunch of young Traders all
around them and they're saying is that
can you tell us again what it was like
to uh to be in a bare market and uh I
think that the one thing that scares me
is we you know have this 50 basis point
cut and then we have you know sort of
like this view that well you know things
could be a little bit unsettled so we
have to get ahead of it they said for a
lot of
people if you started your Wall Street
career at 25 you worked for a few years
went to MBA School came out is said
right now you could be 40 years old and
never seen a a a large bare
market so you'd have to go back to you
know 2008 you know in that period And so
what happens is is that you have a
collective memory
of people who don't understand what
happens if markets go down in in
equities and I think that a perfect
example of that was is that there are
people who after they carry debacle in
August that there are saying like oh the
FED should cut 75 basis points
immediately okay now a 20% correction in
the stock market which would be a bare
Market uh is you have a Devastation on a
lot of people's wealth but on many
measures that wouldn't really sort of
eliminate all the overvaluation in
stocks by some measures and in some
sense it would just take you back about
a year and a half worth of returns so it
wouldn't really have that large of a
devastating impact yet the fed and
everybody is sort of sort of focused in
on that we have to always go
higher that they don't really have a
memory or they don't accept that there's
a possibility that we could have a large
down move in stocks and this reaction
problem is a behavioral problem but it's
something that uh that systematic
managers are better able to address
because a lot of times they'll back test
models over a very long history their
reaction is say like well even if I
haven't seen a bare Market I know what
to do if market prices go down I'm going
to be a seller because what a model is
telling you so I think that that's
really important is is that there's
going to be a time when equities are
going to start to fall and people say I
don't know what to do yet a this the
systematic manager should be able to
have a plan in place because his models
allows for going both long and short in
the
marketplace I absolutely true the other
thing that is important I think about
this and that is when when
these Market moves happen and often what
we see uh when a trend is coming towards
the end of it even though we don't know
exactly where that's going to be but
often there is a pickup of volatility
around these big turning points um and
that in itself actually often triggers
Trend followers to reduce their risk so
uh of course you can have a sharp
reversal which with there's nothing we
can do about that but but often you do
see
uh this so I think that I think you're
right um that there are there are risks
out there uh just from the simple fact
that there is very little experience by
many um institutional uh investors who
may be controlling large amounts of
money um and then of course on top of
that you have the whole uh discussion
about just flows from passive
Investments and and what that's going to
do once the markets uh go down for a
sustained period of time not the usual
two or three weeks that we've been used
to the last uh you know few years where
every time there's a crisis uh Central
Bank seems to be able to fix it in a sh
uh period of time but um yeah I think
that is a relevant thing before we leave
it today though Mark I really would like
to talk a little bit about one of your
other topics which is the SG index and
picking managers you had been thinking
about this I always think about this so
um what are your thoughts well I think
that there was the uh trans Tren did a
little paper and I think it was done a
little bit in in just as we as we talked
about uh that there's it's the 25th
anniversary of the SG index and uh that
oh well just buy the index and yet you
know in some sense index replication of
just holding a bunch of
managers doesn't sit well with me in the
idea that you could be able to pick
other managers that you can blend
together that might do a a better job
and interesting if you look at the
construction of the SG Index this is
that they look at uh what is the top uh
managers in terms of AUM and then they
adjust this once a year and so you could
have big changes based on up quote
unquote popularity of of
indices and I think that in reality is
this is that uh you don't need the whole
complement of what they do with that
index that in reality is is that you can
pick a a diversified portfolio of ctas
that should be able to outdo the SG
index yeah I mean um I read actually
over the weekend um a blog post not
specifically related to what what we do
um but it was related to uh to something
very um similar and that was from
Michael Green who of uh course has
written a lot about this problem about
um passive investing and and what how
that distort markets and all that and
probably still yet to see the effect of
that um but the title resonated with me
um because I think the title why was why
bother being
better and and this goes back to this
idea that you know if you're in our
industry why not buy the index right um
but of course we as managers we'd like
to think that we can outperform uh these
indices and as uh haral from transend uh
I think I can't remember the precise
wording but but he's also basically
suggesting that investors should try and
find managers who strive to be different
from the index and ideally of course be
better uh than the index and and I you
know obviously we have Andrew on the on
on the show on a regular basis and and
he's a a great proponent of uh the
replication of indices he's been
instrumental and now creating this new
sock gen CTA or investable CTA index
even though it's a different part of soj
as I Now understand that's uh producing
it um of course it's giant back test of
a model uh people should be aware of
that but um it it sounds to it what what
I'm what I feel about the topic is that
I get the sense that we're trying to
promote something that if you buy the
index there is no risk it's the
index but buying a CTA index is not the
same as buying an index of
stocks and the the other thing that I
don't think is being discussed enough is
that um and I'm not saying this is being
promoted anymore as a as a as an idea
but I certainly remember in the
initially that buying a replicator index
is also there to solve the problem of
manager risk because if you just pick
one or two managers they may not be
beating the index sure so there's a
manager risk but it almost make it sound
like there is no manager risk in buying
a replicator of the index I think
there's a huge manager risk and often
these replicators run very small firms
much smaller than the underlying
managers um plus their models could be
uh you know flawed they could break who
knows so those are some of the issues
that I struggle with let me put it that
way um and I feel that we need to be
more open and clear about the pros and
the cons um about these things I think
managers I think we're pretty open about
the risks uh by picking a manager uh but
I'd like to see more of that uh openness
uh on the uh on the ETF replicator side
to be perfectly blunt about it well
replicators try to sort of say I'm going
to give you the median return for a uh
for a given
strategy and and that's fine if you say
like I have no skill at picking
managers I uh I want to have a lowcost
alternative and I'm satisfied with the
with the median okay okay it's it it's
could be useful at the same time is is
that saying that you're going to uh uh
if the replication is supposed to get
the median that's different than an
index where you know the stock index is
is that what we find this is that most
managers
underperform the uh their benchmarks
okay uh so a median uh replication
strategy is not a benchmark replication
so Benchmark of BU the S&P 500 is saying
this is that I'm just going to hold this
back uh this package uh and I feel like
that and I know that this Benchmark is
usually underperformed relative by the
set of peers the replication is
different because what they're saying
this is that I'm not a benchmark I'm
going to try to give you the median
return of a bundle of managers because I
I have enough information to sort of say
I can be able to figure out the factors
that DW the average manager so uh so so
it is a different product and it has a
different set of uh of investor base
investor base is to say people that say
I'm don't want to have the downside risk
of being wrong I'm willing to accept the
median and I want it as a lowcost
alternative yeah well I'm sure we're
going to be talking about these things
uh in the future but for now Mark I
really do appreciate all the uh all the
hard work and preparation you did for
today's uh conversation and if just like
me you appreciate this please head over
to your podcast player of choice leave a
rating and review um to show that you
appreciate the time that's being put
into creating these conversations next
week Alan will be joined by Jim as I'm
uh offline um so make sure you go and uh
get your questions ready uh Jim's
conversations are always great and uh
with Alan I'm sure it'll be uh super
interesting you can send the questions
as usual to info@ toop Traders on.com
and I'll make sure that Alan receives
them um that's it for today from Mark
and me thanks so much for listening we
look forward to being back with you next
week until next time and by the way
remember to listen to Kevin cine Allan
and me next week until next time take
care of yourself and take care of each
other thanks for listening to top
Traders unplugged if you feel you
learned something of value from today's
episode the best way to stay updated is
to go on over to iTunes and subscribe to
the show so that you'll be sure to get
all the new episodes as they're released
we have some amazing guests lined up for
you and to ensure our show continues to
grow please leave us an honest rating
and review on iTunes it only takes a
minute and it's the best way to show us
you love the the podcast we'll see you
next time on top Traders unplugged
[Music]
